foreign
oversight and accountability will come
to order we want to welcome everyone
without objection the chair May declare
a recess at any time
I recognize myself for the purpose of
making an opening statement
today's hearing is the house oversight
and accountability committee's first
step in examining the coordination
between the federal government and big
Tech to restrict protected speech and
interfere in the Democratic process
social media platforms are increasingly
the place Americans go to express their
views debate issues and gather news and
information
these platforms
are the virtual Town Square
however many social media platforms are
under the control of people who are
hostile to the fundamental American
principles of free speech and expression
protected in the U.S Constitution
we've witnessed big Tech autocrats
willed their unchecked power to suppress
the speech of Americans to promote their
preferred political opinions
Twitter was once one of these platforms
until Elon Musk purchased the company a
few months ago
Mr musk has pledged to end censorship
that goes beyond the law he has pledged
to allow Americans voices be heard not
quashed
in this hearing we will examine the
actions taken by Twitter prior to Mr
musk's ownership many of these actions
were carried out by the witnesses before
us today
prior to Mr must take over the company
Twitter aggressively suppressed
conservative elected officials
journalists and activists this includes
Shadow Banning locking accounts and
banning accounts altogether
in fact Twitter's previous management
team de-platformed and suppressed not
just conservative voices but anyone
whose opinions strayed from what they
deemed acceptable
opinions such as that students could and
should attend school in person to curb
learning laws
in the past Twitter's leadership
included previous CEO Jack Dorsey
claimed the company did not limit the
visibility of certain accounts and
tweets known as Shadow padding he said
this in front of Congress in 2018.
but we now know they did
even placing such accounts on search and
trend backlists
Twitter's employees made censorship
decisions on the Fly often not following
the company's own policy publicly stated
policies
it worked hand in hand with the FBI to
monitor the protected speech of
Americans receiving millions of tax
dollars to do so
Twitter under the leadership of our
Witnesses today was a private company
the federal government used to
accomplish what it constitutionally
cannot limit the free exercise of speech
we now know all this thanks to Elon Musk
and the independent journalists who have
contributed to what are known as the
Twitter files
that brings us to the specific topic of
today's hearing Twitter censorship of a
news article that shed light on Joe
Biden's involvement in his family's
suspicious business deals
in the months leading up to the laptop
Story the FBI advised senior Twitter
Executives to question the validity of
any hunter Biden story
we also know that one of the witnesses
before us today participated in an aspen
Institute exercise in September 2020 on
a potential hack and dump operation
related to Hunter Biden other big tech
companies and reporters attended as well
this exercise prepared them for their
future collusion to suppress and
delegitimize information contained in
Hunter Biden's laptop about the Biden's
family business schemes
on October 14 2020 the New York Post
published its first story based on
information contained in Hunter Biden's
laptop story
in Hunter Biden's laptop the post
provided proof of the laptop's
legitimacy by releasing a computer
repair store signed receipt for the
laptop and the federal subpoena used by
the FBI to retrieve it in 2019.
the article revealed that a top
executive at barisma who was paying
Hunter Biden fifty thousand dollars a
month had spent time with then Vice
President Biden in Washington D.C
throughout his presidential campaign Joe
Biden assured the American people that
he had never spoken to his son about his
overseas business feeling
however
the details exposed in the Post article
indicate that Joe Biden lied to the
American people
immediately following the story's
publication America witnessed a
coordinated campaign by social media
companies mainstream news and the
intelligence Community to suppress and
delegitimize the existence of Hunter
Biden's laptop and its contents
that morning Twitter and other social
media companies took extraordinary steps
to suppress that story
Twitter immediately removed the story
and banned the New York Post account
Twitter also banned accounts who shared
the story including White House Press
Secretary Kylie mcanan and blocked its
transmission via direct message
this episode marked the first time
Twitter directly limited the spread of
information from a mainstream news
organization
and the York Post would not get its
account back for two weeks
Twitter would finally admit its mistake
but the damage had already been done
on October 19th 51 former intelligence
officials published a letter that Hunter
Biden's laptop was Russian
disinformation
which Joe Biden used as a talking point
at a presidential debate
on October 22nd
but we all know
this was not
Russian disinformation
it wasn't disinformation
I want to make sure the American people
truly understand the timeline here
because it's very important the hunter
Biden laptop story was published on
Wednesday
Twitter did not acknowledge a mistake
for at least 24 hours then on Monday
morning 51 former intelligence officials
published their letter that letter was
then wholeheartedly accepted by
mainstream use as proof that the laptop
was fake
Joe Biden used that letter to brush
aside the few questions he received
about the story during that time the
mainstream media was more concerned
about what flavor of ice cream Joe Biden
had ordered on a particular day
all this happened two weeks before the
2020 election two weeks
one survey found that 17 percent of
Biden voters would not have voted for
the Biden Harris ticket if they'd known
about the Biden laptop
but many Americans did not know about it
because of a coordinated cover-up by big
Tech the swamp and mainstream views
now mainstream media Outlets have
verified the laptop
but the damage has been done
today we are joined by three former
high-ranking employees at Twitter
uh Vijaya Gadi
Twitter's former top lawyer James Baker
Twitter's former deputy general counsel
and Joel Roth Twitter's former head of
trust and safety we also joined by
Annika Collier navarali navaroli
Twitter's former head of trust and
safety
I got a former Twitter member of U.S
safety policy team let me get that right
I would like to thank you all for your
participation in today's hearing we owe
it to the American people to provide
answers about this collusion to censor
information about Joe Biden's
involvement
in his family's
business schemes with that I yield to
the ranking member for his opening
statement thank you kindly Mr chairman
uh last night in the State of the Union
Address uh overall the heckling
President Biden reviewed significant
achievements his administration and
Congressional Democrats are delivering
for the American people the lowest
unemployment rate in over 50 years a
manufacturing boom in clean energy
semiconductors and infrastructure
expanding health care for veterans and
lowering prescription drug costs for
seniors and people with diabetes beating
the opioid epidemic and addressing our
national Mental Health crisis historic
action on climate change but this
morning we return not to focus on
advancing this robust agenda of progress
but instead to take up an authentically
Trivial Pursuit all based on the
obsessive victimology of right-wing
politics in America the majority is
called a hearing to revisit a
two-year-old story about a private
editorial decision by Twitter not to
allow links to a single New York Post
article made for a two-day period that
had noticed discernible influence on
anyone or anything the New York Post
published the article on its own pages
and it was carried by lots of other
media Outlets it was widely discussed
including on Twitter itself even during
the brief moment in time when links
weren't provided and it was a fixture in
right-wing media for the next three
weeks before the election I think even
the chairman and other members of this
committee were out on TV and social
media talking about it but instead of
letting this Trivial Pursuit go my
colleagues have tried to whip up a faux
Scandal about this two-day lapse in
their ability to spread Hunter Biden
propaganda on a private media platform
silly does not even begin to capture
this Obsession what's more Twitter's
editorial decision has been analyzed and
debated Ad nauseam some people think it
was the right decision some people think
it was the wrong decision but the key
Point here is that it was Twitter's
decision Twitter is a private Media
company in America private media
companies can decide what to publish or
how to curate content however they want
if Twitter wants to have nothing but
tweets commenting on New York Post
articles run all day it can do that if
it makes such tweets mentioned in New
York Post uh never see the light of the
day they can do that too that's what the
First Amendment means Twitter can ban
Donald Trump for inciting violent
Insurrection against the Union as he was
impeached by the House of
Representatives and is 57 of 100
Senators found he did and he can also
try to resurrect his political career
Elon Musk just purchase Twitter and
therefore controls its editorial content
and among the first things he did was to
fire some people hire some people
denounce some prior decisions and
reinstate an unrepentant and still
clearly lying Donald Trump to the
platform those decisions however heroic
were imbecilic you think they might be
are protected by the first amendment in
the United States of America officially
Twitter happens to think they got it
wrong about that day or two period in
hindsight Twitter's former CEO Jack
George Mercy called it a mistake
this apology might be a statement of
regret about the company being overly
cautious about the risks of publishing
content to potentially hacked or stolen
materials or it may reflect Craven's
surrender to a right-wing pressure
campaign but however you interpret it
the apology just makes the premise of
this hearing all the more absurd the
professional conspiracy theorists who
are heckling and haranguing this private
company have already gotten exactly what
they want in apology what more do they
want and why does the U.S Congress have
to be involved in this nonsense when we
have serious work to do for the American
people but what makes this hearing
tragic is that if our colleagues really
wanted to examine a serious problem
involving American democracy and social
media my friends it is staring Us in the
face right now Twitter and other social
media companies acted as Central
organizing and staging grounds for the
January 6 of violent Insurrection
against Congress and against vice
president Pence Twitter became the
National and Global platform for
incitement to seditious violence against
our government and a forum on the day of
attack for coordinating logistical
movements and tactical Maneuvers in the
mob violence against our police officers
in the lead-up to January 6 Twitter
decided to allow Donald Trump and
countless Mega extremists to use the
platform to spread Trump's ridiculous
big lie and disinformation about the
election and soon the internet was
replete with incitement for civil war
race war Insurrection Revolution and mob
violence Twitter did so despite
increasingly desperate appeals from its
own employees to act in the interests of
Public Safety approaching January 6. the
first amendment is robust and expansive
but it stops at this point it does not
protect anyone's right to engage in
incitement to imminent Lawless action
and violent action against the
government or against other people this
is the Brandenburg principle there's no
carve out to free speech for speech
relating to the New York Post or Hunter
Biden or laptops but there's a
significant carve out when the speech is
deliberately calculated to produce
imminent violence and Chaos against the
government that's why Twitter's
deliberate indifference to Trump's big
lies and incitement its decision to
ignore the pleas of its own employees to
deal with the impending explosion
against our police and against Congress
on January 6 are matters that require
real investigation and reflection rather
than conspiring to suppress right-wing
Mega speech as my colleagues
astonishingly claim Twitter and other
media companies knowingly facilitated
Trump's spread of disinformation or what
his own sycophantic Attorney General
William Barr would come to call
and gave voice to his followers
glorification of violence and calls for
civil war today we will hear from Anika
Collier navaroli a former Twitter
employee turned corporate whistleblower
and patriotic hero raise the alarm
inside Twitter and numerous about
numerous accelerating warning signs that
she saw leading up to the violent and
catastrophic attack on the capitol on
January 6 2021. it means navability is
here today to publicly testify about how
senior officials at Twitter resisted her
efforts to put policies in place or to
enforce existing policies to promote
Public Safety and to defend our national
security Twitter management however did
not want to cross Donald Trump I don't
know precisely how we will solve the
problem of private social media
platforms being used for the
organization of coups and incitement of
violent insurrections against the United
States or Brazil or any other country
but this is a grave problem confronting
democracy not just in America but all
over the world it is not a silly
concocted partisan issue we must analyze
it carefully and legislate effectively
to address it and we must never forget
that the enemies of democracy led by
autocrat and war criminal Vladimir Putin
are spending hundreds of millions of
dollars on social media propaganda and
disinformation to destabilize democracy
all over the world even as they wage
their genocidal illegal aggressive war
against the people of Ukraine how are we
going to prevent the liberal democracies
from being overrun by Propaganda
disinformation and violent incitement
we'll listen to Anika Collier navaroli
because she has something important to
say she poses a problem that would be
worthy of a serious Congressional
hearing and we should have one thank you
Mr chairman I yield back Gilman yields
back I want to thank again the witnesses
for appearing here today today's
Witnesses are former Twitter employees
uh Vijaya Gaddy Twitter's former general
counsel James Baker Twitter's former
deputy general counsel Joel Roth
Twitter's former head of trust and
safety and Annika Collier navarali a
former member of Twitter's U.S safety
policy team I want to remind everyone
you all are appearing under subpoena by
your own request
pursuant to committee rule 9g the
witnesses will plea will please stand
and raise the right hands
do you salt do you solemnly swear or
affirm that the testimony you are about
to give is the truth the whole truth and
nothing but the truth so help you God
let the record show that the witnesses
all answered in the affirmative
we'll begin the five-minute question
portion of our hearing today the chair
recognizes
oh
apologize
ready to get to the questions we'll
we'll start with the opening statements
then we'll go to the question so uh each
witness will will get a five-minute
opening statements and we'll begin with
you Mr Baker
foreign
thank you Mr chairman Mr chairman uh
ranking member Raskin and members of the
committee thank you for the opportunity
to appear before you today I hope that
we will have a useful conversation about
matters that are of great importance to
the nation and the world
my main goals for this statement are
simply to attempt to set the record
straight with respect to certain false
assertions that have been made about me
in public
in the public Arena and to offer a
suggestion with respect to potential
legislation in the area of social media
regulation
the committee is aware however based on
the advice of counsel I believe in good
faith that I'm constrained today by my
legal and ethical obligations as a
former lawyer for Twitter as well as by
certain non-disclosure agreements within
those constraints however I will
endeavor to respond to the committee's
questions as fully as I possibly can and
I believe I can make the following
statements first I was not aware of and
certainly did not engage in any
conspiracy or other effort to do
anything unethical improper or unlawful
while while I was at Twitter period
I did not act unlawfully or otherwise
inappropriately in any manner with
respect to Hunter Biden's laptop indeed
documents that Twitter has disclosed
publicly reflected I urge caution with
respect to the matter and noted that we
needed more information to fully assess
what was going on and to decide what to
do hardly a surprising piece of advice
from a corporate lawyer
moreover I'm I'm aware of no unlawful
collusion with or direction from any
government agency or political campaign
on how Twitter should have handled the
hunter Biden laptop situation
even though many disagree with how
hitter how Twitter handled the hunter
Biden matter I believe that the public
record reveals that my client acted in a
manner that was fully consistent with
the First Amendment
I think that the best reading of the law
is that as a private entity the first
amendment protects Twitter and its
content moderation decisions and I do
not believe that the facts in the public
record indicate that Twitter became a
state actor as that concept is defined
under existing precedent such that the
First Amendment would have constrained
it
second I believe that at all times I
executed my duties and responsibilities
to my client Twitter
lawfully and ethically at no time was I
an agent or operative of the government
or any political actor when I worked at
Twitter to the contrary I believe that I
worked zealously and diligently within
the bounds of the law in pursuit of my
clients best interests
third I did not destroy or improperly
suppress any documents at Twitter
regarding information important to the
public dialogue
at all times I sought to help my client
understand and comply with its legal
obligations
it is worth noting that the public
record indicates that after I left the
company attorneys or other unidentified
third parties collected and or reviewed
the contents of at least some of the
Twitter files prior to their release
fourth
Twitter discovers publicly emails
between me and Joel Roth regarding one
of Donald Trump's tweets about covet I
do not have access to my Twitter emails
so I do not know if or how I responded
to Mr Roth to the best of my
recollection I do not recall directing
or urging him to take action with
respect to Mr Trump's tweet instead what
I recall is that I asked him a question
so that I could better understand how he
and others were implementing Co
Twitter's covid misinformation policy
asking questions and learning more about
what a client what a client's activities
are is what I think good lawyers should
do and again hardly surprising
fifth the Twitter files reference prior
investigations of me it is true that the
Department of Justice investigated
certain aspects of my conduct while I
was employed by the FBI
related to the handling of certain
information
because I believe in the accountability
for government officials I cooperated
with the Department including sitting
for lengthy interviews eventually the
department closed the matter no no
adverse action was taken with respect to
me and my security clearances while a
government employee were never
restricted because of the matter
in closing Mr chairman I want to return
briefly to the general topic of
government interaction with social media
companies the law permits the government
to have complex multi-faceted and
long-term relationships with the private
sector
law enforcement agencies and companies
can engage with each with each other
regarding for example compulsory legal
process served on companies criminal
activity that companies the government
or the public identify such as crimes
against children cyber security threats
and terrorism and instances where
companies themselves are victims of
crime when done properly these
interactions can be beneficial to both
sides and in the interests of the public
as you Mr chairman Mr Jordan and others
have proposed a potential workable way
to legislate in this area may be to
focus on the actions of federal
government agencies and officials with
respect to their engagement with private
sector with the private sector
Congress may be able to limit the nature
and scope of those interactions in
certain ways require enhanced
transparency and Reporting by the
executive branch about its engagements
and require higher level approvals
within the executive branch prior to
such engagements on certain topics so
that you can hold Senate confirmed
officials for example accountable for
those decisions in any event if you want
to legislate my recommendation is to
focus first on reasonable and effective
limitations on government actors thank
you Mr chairman
thank you Mr Baker Miss Gaddy
ranking member members and members of
the committee thank you for this
opportunity to provide this opening
statement
after a decade as a corporate lawyer I
joined Twitter in 2011 as the first
member of the corporate legal team
in 2013 I was promoted to general
counsel in 2018 I became the chief legal
officer and continued in that role until
October of 2022. during my time at
Twitter I had many distinct teams
reporting to me including legal trust
and safety public policy corporate
security and compliance
I was drawn to work at Twitter because
it I was inspired by how people were
using able to use the platform and odd
by its potential Twitter enabled anyone
to hear directly from any individual
instantly
people from around the world were coming
together on Twitter for an open and free
exchange of ideas the work was
challenging and fulfilling
after Jack Dorsey returned to CEO in
2015 one of his top priorities became
what we called the health of a public
conversation
this was based on customer research
Advertiser feedback Twitter's declining
Revenue user growth and stock price
teams across Twitter were focused on
making the platform safer better and
more profitable as an executive of the
company I also was responsible for
helping to achieve the corporate goals
set by Mr Dorsey and I was accountable
to him the board of directors and
ultimately Twitter's public shock
stockholders
as we prioritize the health of the
public conversation we did not lose
sight of what Twitter was for most
people a place to talk about their
favorite things topics That animated the
platform range from K-pop to the World
Cup to video games and movies we needed
to ensure that differences of opinion
would not cross the line for example
into sending death threats to soccer
players who miss important goals
Distributing non-consensual intimate
photos or cyber bullying so vicious that
it could compromise a teenager's Mental
Health
Twitter's platform rules covered a wide
range of conduct and changed over time
based on new behaviors and harms on the
platform and feedback from customers
Regulators governments advertisers
researchers and others this feedback led
to a principles-based approach which we
applied to an array of difficult yet
equally complicated situations around
the world
these rules were also benchmarked
against industry standards
we all knew how difficult it would be to
design much less apply one set of global
rules for hundreds of millions of
accounts that shared billions of tweets
a week
while I was at Twitter the company never
lost sight of its deep commitment to
promoting and defending free expression
around the world for example to protect
human rights Defenders we fought for the
right of people to use pseudonyms on the
platform
we litigated in courts around the world
to protect the rights of people to
express their opinions often defending
them against their own governments who
are acting unlawfully or violating
international human rights
and we took extra precautions to ensure
we scrutinized or challenged and never
just acquiesced to government legal
demands
defending free expression and
maintaining the health of the platform
required difficult judgment calls most
applications of Twitter rules were fact
intensive subject to internal debate and
needed to be made very quickly we
recognize that after applying our rules
we might learn that some of them did not
work as we imagined and that we would
need to update them we always remained
open to new information from our
customers and critics regarding our
policies and enforcement
at times we also reverse course for
example on October 14 2020 the New York
Post tweeted articles about Hunter
Biden's laptop with embedded images that
look like they may have been obtained
through hacking in 2018 we had developed
a policy intended to be to prevent
Twitter from becoming a Dumping Ground
for hacked materials
we applied this policy to the New York
Post tweets and blocked links to the
Articles embedding those Source
materials at no point to Twitter
otherwise prevent tweeting reporting
discussing or describing the contents of
Mr Biden's laptop
people could and did talk about the
contents of the laptop on Twitter or
anyone else including other much larger
platforms but they were prevented from
sharing the primary documents on Twitter
still over the course of that day it
became clear that Twitter had not fully
appreciated the impact of that policy on
Free Press and others as Mr Dorsey
testified before Congress on multiple
occasions Twitter changed its policy
within 24 hours and admitted its initial
action was wrong
policy revision immediately allowed
people to tweet the original articles
with the embedded Source materials
relying on its long-standing practice
not to retroactively apply new policies
Twitter informed the New York Post that
it could immediately begin tweeting when
it deleted the original tweets which
would have freed them to retweet the
same content again
the New York Post chose not to delete
its original tweets so Twitter made an
exception after two weeks to
retroactively apply the new policy to
the post Tweets in hindsight Twitter
should have reinstated the post account
immediately
there is no easy way to run a global
communications platform that satisfies
business and revenue goals individual
customer expectations local laws and
cultural norms and get it right every
time still while I was at Twitter we
worked hard every day to make Twitter a
healthy platform and ultimately a
healthy business thank you for your
attention I look forward to your
questions thank you very much Mr Roth
thank you chairman Comer ranking member
Raskin and members of the committee for
the opportunity to speak with you here
today
in nearly eight years at Twitter I
worked in and led a division called
trust and safety trust and safety's core
duty is content moderation removing
tweets that violate Twitter's terms of
service and suspending users who
repeatedly break the rules
this work is sometimes dismissed merely
as censorship but it represents a key
way that Twitter and other companies
live up to their responsibility to keep
the users of their products safe
much of this work is uncontroversial for
example taking down accounts that engage
in child sexual exploitation or promote
terrorism
the gray area of this work though is
when trust and safety teams have to make
decisions about so-called lawful but
awful material content that may be legal
in many jurisdictions but isn't
something most people would want to
experience
think of things like posting someone
else's home address without their
permission or bullying somebody for a
disability or for how they look
a free speech absolutist might say yes
that kind of content is unpleasant but
it's not against the law what right do
you have to remove it
the answer is the need to make Twitter
an appealing product for millions of
people
consistently in its own research Twitter
found that users were unhappy with the
company's approach to content moderation
and that this dissatisfaction drove
people away from the service
this has consequences for what we mean
by free speech on social media again and
again we saw the speech of a small
number of abusive users Drive Away
countless others
unrestricted free speech paradoxically
results in less speech not more it was
our job in trust and safety to try to
strike an appropriate balance
but the importance of the of this work
goes far beyond Twitter's business
prospects and into the realm of National
Security
in 2017 I led the team at Twitter that
uncovered significant interference in an
American election by agents of the
Russian government
their mission was to stoke culture War
issues on social media to try to further
divide Americans my team and I exposed
hundreds of thousands of these accounts
from Russia but also from Iran China and
Beyond
it's a concern with these foreign
interference campaigns that informed
Twitter's approach to the hunter Biden
laptop story
in 2020 Twitter noticed activity related
to the laptop that at first glance bore
a lot of similarities to the 2016
Russian Hack and leak operation
targeting the DNC and we had to decide
what to do
and in that moment with limited
information Twitter made a mistake
under the distribution of hacked
material policy the company decided to
prevent links to the New York Post
stories about the laptop from being
shared across the service
I've been clear that in my judgment at
the time Twitter should not have taken
action to block the New York post's
reporting and just 24 hours after doing
so the company acknowledged its error
but the decisions here aren't
straightforward and hindsight is 2020.
it isn't obvious what the right response
is to a suspected but not confirmed
Cyber attack by another government on a
presidential election I believe Twitter
aired in this case because we wanted to
avoid repeating the mistakes of 2016.
and so the basic job of trust and safety
is to try to strike this balance between
the harms of restricting too much speech
and the dangers of doing too little
I'll be the first to admit that we
didn't always get it right even rare
mistakes add up when you're carrying out
content moderation at the scale of
hundreds of millions of unique posts per
day
while I was head of trust and safety at
Twitter I strove to do this work with
impartiality and with a commitment to
the fair enforcement of Twitter's
written rules but whether it's me or
Elon Musk or someone else in the future
someone will have to make choices about
the governance of online spaces
those decisions should not be made
behind closed doors or based on personal
whims I hope that we can work together
to find ways to bring greater trust and
transparency to social media and I look
forward to answering the committee's
questions about any of these topics to
the best of my ability
thank you Miss navaroli
good morning chairman Comer ranking
member Raskin and members of the
committee thank you so much for the
opportunity to speak with you all today
I'm here because there is an urgent need
for us to understand the impact that
social media companies are having on our
democracy
I will be very clear I was not involved
in the decision around Hunter Biden's
laptop
but I was involved in decisions that
were made leading up to during and after
the January 6th attack on the capitol
if we are going to talk about social
media in the government we need to talk
about Twitter's failure to act before
January 6th
I am here to tell you that doing nothing
is not an option if we continue to do
nothing violence is going to happen
again
my background is as a trained lawyer and
journalist and my expertise over the
past decade has been in the areas of
media technology law and policy with a
particular focus on social media and
free expression
I joined Twitter in 2019 and by 2020 I
was the most senior expert on Twitter's
U.S safety policy team
my team's mission was to protect free
speech and Public Safety by writing and
enforcing content moderation policies
around the world these policies included
things like abuse harassment hate speech
violence and privacy
so if no other algorithm or no other
human could decide if a tweet violated
my team's policies the safety team
policy acted as the final moderators
if a high profile individual like any
member of this committee or president
Trump tweeted something controversial it
was sent to my team's desk
every day we had to set to decide
whether a particular piece of content
equated to yelling fire in a crowded
theater
my work at Twitter and subsequently at
twitch put me in the middle of key
events in history
what I've learned from them is that
social media played and continues to
play a role in these events and two
years after January 6th we still need to
better understand the role that Twitter
played in order to prevent it from
happening again
so what do we need to understand
first Twitter's leadership bent and
broke their own rules in order to
protect some of the most dangerous
speech on the platform
I'm going to talk a little bit about
what happened in the months leading up
to January 6. during this time my team
worked to try to minimize the threat of
violence that we saw coming
after president Trump instructed the
proud boys to stand back and stand by in
a debate we considered the danger that
that statement would have if it was
tweeted
so we crafted what we called a coded
incitement to violence policy to address
dog whistles like this
instead of approving it management bent
over backwards to find ways to not
approve it
on January 5th when the policy was still
not approved I led a meeting where one
of my colleagues asked management
whether someone was going to have to get
shot before we were allowed to take down
tweets
another colleague looked up live tweets
and read them to management to try to
convince them of the seriousness of the
issue
still no action was taken
on the morning of January 6 I sent
Twitter lawyers a message warning them
that our team was hamstrung by
leadership
two days later when it looked like it
was going to happen all over again I
asked management whether they wanted
more blood on their hands
only then did they act
the second problem is that there is way
too much power concentrated in the hands
of too few
with January 6 and many other decisions
content moderators like me did the very
best that we could but far too often
there are far too few of us and we are
being asked to do the impossible
for example in January 20th January 2020
after the U.S assassinated an Iranian
General and the U.S president decided to
justify it on Twitter management
literally instructed me and my team to
make sure that World War III did not
start on the platform
no person people or company should have
that kind of unchecked power or that
kind of responsibility
the modern day public conversation
should not be susceptible to the whims
of any one individual or any one company
fixing the systemic issues that lead to
bad decisions is not going to be easy
but people like me who have been in the
trenches can help lead the way but I
must say coming forward and offering
this information is risky and it is
difficult doxing and harassment are real
and people are afraid to tell what they
know
so we need to make sure that there are
protections for those who speak the
truth we need to create space to hear
from people on the front lines
we need to give them protection so they
can share their experiences
only then can we begin to understand the
full scope of the problem and to find
Solutions
there is far too much at stake for us to
do nothing thank you
thank you all excellent opening
statements now we'll begin with the
question portion we'll Begin by
recognizing Mr Biggs for five minutes
thank you Mr chairman Mr Roth
within uh of just mere minutes or hours
after the New York Post published its
story on the hunter Biden laptop
uh at 8 51 A.M
you sent a message to A Team part of
your team I assume and you said it isn't
clearly violative of our hack materials
policy referring to this story nor is it
clearly in violation of anything else do
you remember sending that message
thank you for the question Congressman I
don't recall that message specifically
but that does sound like my judgment on
that day yes okay so that was early on
in the day
and yet uh shortly thereafter Kaylee
mcinerney White House Press secretaries
uh her her account was locked
um so an inquiry was made the next day
by a person named Carolyn Strom you know
Carolyn Strom
yes sir I do yeah Carolyn Strom asked
what's going on here and somebody named
Elaine aung Soto said the user was
bounced by site Integrity for violating
our hacked materials policy do you
remember that incident
yes sir I do and somebody named Trenton
Kennedy said I'm struggling to
understand the policy basis for marking
this as unsafe
and I think the best explainability
argument
now that may be a technical term for you
but for me it looks like we're trying to
create a narrative here to cover our
butt the best explainability argument
for this externally will be that we're
waiting to understand that this story is
the result of hacked materials do you
remember Mr Kennedy's communication
yes I do yeah and so
then we get into uh
a whole series of things written by Mr
Baker going back and forth
and he says
on that same day and now at 9 26 which
is about a half an hour after
the you're you're a statement that you
don't think that anything's been
violated here he says I've seen some
reliable cyber security folks questioned
the authenticity of the emails
in another way and then you seem to uh
later
but by the way that's almost
inconceivable I mean it just seems
inconceivable that that would have
happened so quickly that he would he
would have that
and then you send out something
uh right after that that said the key
factor in forming our approach is
consensus from experts monitoring
election security and disinformation
that this looks a lot like a hack and
leak that learned uh that learned from
the 2016 Wikileaks approach I'm
wondering if you can name for me today
any of the experts that seem to have a
consensus at 10 12 a.m on the morning of
October 14th that you put out saying
that we're going to rely on some some
group of experts who were they
thank you for the question
Twitter did not give me access to any of
my documents or emails to prepare for
this hearing and so unfortunately I
can't give you a direct answer
were there experts were there were there
people that you consulted that were
cyber Security Experts between uh 9 A.M
and 10 15 a.m on that day
my recollection is that we were
following discussions about this
incident as they unfolded on Twitter so
cyber security experts were tweeting
about this incident and sharing their
perspectives and that informed some of
Twitter's judgment here but I want to
emphasize as I said in my statement I
didn't think that the evidence or those
perspectives warranted removal and I
advocated against taking that action and
I understand let's let's look at one
other one other document
um
our teams made the determination the
material that the materials fall under
are hacked materials policy
it's my understanding from reports and
internal sources that normally hacked
material policy
would require a a government official or
law enforcement determination that there
had actually been a hacked
account before that hacked policy were
to be in place or imposed is that
accurate
no sir it's not
so the policy was did not require that
there be any kind of official finding by
the government by a government source
note there were a number of different
types of evidence that we considered
under the policy certainly government
attribution would be a powerful one but
we also looked so you weren't looking
that wasn't determinative is what we're
saying in that instance we did not have
any specific information from any
government Source no I'm going to read
something that um applies to this and
several other things
from from your from the uh the Twitter
stack uh that you guys had this might be
an unpopular opinion but one of one-off
ad hoc decisions like this that don't
appear rooted in policy are in my humble
opinion a slippery slope and reflect an
alternatively equal equally dictatorial
problem
quite frankly that's what the essence of
all four of your testimony I I realize
you're trying to fight against it but
you exercised
you exercised an amazing amount of clout
and power over the entire American
electorate by even holding them hostage
for 24 hours reversing your policy and
then holding and then they're like well
we we want to go back with the originals
that's 24 hours or two weeks that you
imposed your will on the American
electorate I'll yield back Mr chairman
gentleman times expiry with 30 seconds
over I'll give the ranking member an
extra 30 seconds you're a very fair
minded Mr chairman
um Mr Ross let me start with you did I
hear you correctly to say that there
were thousands or even hundreds of
thousands of counterfeit Twitter
accounts set up by Russian propaganda
and disinformation for Vladimir Putin to
pump his poison into the bloodstream of
American social media is that right
that's right sir and that's not just
past tense those accounts are active on
social media today this is an ongoing
campaign well we should be having a
hearing about that I appreciate your
alerting to us uh what's taken place I
mean it's not really so you've testified
that in the months leading up to the
November 2020 election and then in the
weeks before January 6 you were growing
increasingly anxious about the violent
rhetoric and incitement that you saw
posted on Twitter can you describe
specifically what made you so concerned
during that period and did you raise
your concerns with people at Twitter
thank you for that question as I said in
my opening statement after former
president Trump and his debate said the
statement uh stand back stand by to the
proud boys
my team in discussion with other teams
at Twitter realized that we had a gap in
our policies and that that could not be
said on the platform because it would
have gone too far what we did see
continue to happen was those those
statements in addition to other coded
incitement to violence or dog whistles
began to spring up on the platform and
so what was once Fringe ideology or
Fringe statements that we're calling for
the overthrow of the government became
a loud roar and so we heard individuals
beginning to say that they were locked
and loaded that they were ready for
Civil War part two that they were ready
for another Revolution that they were
ready for the day of the rope in very
clear English on Twitter and in on the
January 6 committee we have tens of
thousands of statements like that being
made on Twitter and other parts of
social media so we got a a little taste
of what you were experiencing on a daily
basis now there was this meeting on
January 5th at Twitter I don't think it
was called specifically to look at what
was what was going to happen the next
day that just happened to be a regular
meeting but at that meeting you and
other employees raised urgently the
problem of what you saw coming on
January 6 how did Twitter management
respond to the concerns that you raised
that's a great question and yes that
meeting was a regularly scheduled
meeting within the meeting I believe I
referred to it in my testimony to the
January 6 committee as I was at my wits
and I had argued I had asked questions I
had asked for clarification we had found
dangerous tweets within the meeting and
yet the individual who is the most
senior leader within the team in that
meeting told us that we were not allowed
to take that content down and that we
were not allowed to use the coded
incitement to violence policy the reason
that she gave us mirrored what we had
been told by the former head of trust
and safety Del Harvey that individuals
might be saying things like locked and
loaded or stand back and stand by in
ways of self-protection that was not
what we were seeing on the platform
so when you were seeing things like
locked and loaded in Civil War part two
and race war and so on were you warning
your superiors at Twitter that you
thought there was going to be real
violence that it was this was not
hyperbole that was being spoken at that
point absolutely I specifically told Dal
Harvey herself that someone was going to
get shot
as I test devoted to my my uh to the
January 6 committee
um
you stated that Donald Trump described
his own tweets as little missiles why
did that uh stick in your mind
yes I the
the quote that you're referring to I'm I
don't remember exactly what news article
that it was in but it was a news article
that I had read in which the former
president said that he likes to send out
his tweets like little missiles to me
that sounded exactly like weaponization
of a platform in his own words and yet
Twitter was not concerned
all right well
um again this Bears uh a complete
hearing on its own this is a real issue
unlike something that happened a couple
years ago for 24 hours that uh has
already disappeared in the sands of time
but this is facing us today as you say
those right-wing violent forces are
still out there and the social media can
still be used as a channel for
incitement to Violent action against
State Legislature school boards the
capital of the United States Congress
and so on how do we prevent this from
happening in the future and do you think
that Twitter is dealing with this
problem effectively now
as I said in my opening statement we
have to do something there is too much
at stake for us to continue to do
nothing in this question of how do we
prevent it is a big one unfortunately I
do not believe that we are at a place
that we can come to Solutions because we
do not know how these companies work we
must continue to hear from individuals
like myself we must have a seat at the
table to be able to share our
experiences because our experiences and
the ways that we have succeeded the ways
that we have failed hold the key to our
futures and the key to our democracies
all right thank you Mr chairman I would
just say I was skeptical about
revisiting the whole New York Post thing
where there have already been
Congressional hearings and they've
already apologized for their little
lapse but this is a serious issue and so
I'm glad we at least have the
opportunity to begin to talk about it in
public and I yield back to you thank you
gentleman yields back I'll recognize
myself now for questioning the Biden
family investigation begins with the
story of how big Tech the media Former
Intelligence agents and the bidens
themselves suppress the story of Hunter
Biden's laptop weeks before the 2020
election today we're hearing from
Twitter Executives who buried the New
York Post laptop story claiming it
violated the platform's Hacked materials
policy in reality the Twitter Executives
were hostile towards conservatives and
biased towards anyone who opposed their
points of view for example Mr Roth did
you write this tweet
I regret the language that I used in
some of my former tweets but yes I did
post that and I'll read the Tweet so
it's in the record yes that person in
the pink hat is clearly a bigger threat
to your brand of feminism than actual
Nazis in the White House
Mr Ross do you think all conservatives
are Nazis
certainly not sir
what about the hundreds of people who
worked in the Trump Administration
certainly not did Miss Gaddy or any
other lawyer Twitter ever tell you to
take down that tweet
no Twitter did not have a practice of
restricting employees sharing their
personal viewpoints on the service
turning back to the laptop Miss Gaddy
are you aware that Hunter Biden's
lawyers as recently as last week wrote
the Department of Justice about Hunter
Biden's laptop
I've seen some articles about that yes
they did and it appears that Hunter
Biden's attorney is admitting that the
laptop and emails on it are authentic
ity on October 14 2020 did Hunter Biden
report to Twitter that he was the victim
of a hack
no I don't believe he did Miss Gatti
when the New York Post initially broke
the story about the laptop did you call
Hunter Bond's lawyer to ask if it was
authentic
no I did not
isn't it correct that the Biden campaign
had contact with Twitter in the run-up
to the 2020 election
not to my knowledge
and you're telling this committee that
you didn't ask any Biden representative
if the laptop was real or for 100
Attorney's phone number to confirm it's
authenticity
we did not speak to anybody related to
that
Mr Baker are you aware that the FBI had
Hunter Biden's laptop since December of
2019.
I'm sorry am I aware of that now I well
were you aware then at that then no I
don't believe sir that uh to the best of
my recollection I don't think but you're
aware now I've heard that now yes
Mr Becker did you call any of your
contacts at the FBI to ask whether or
not they knew if the material had been
hacked
I don't recall contacting them about
that on that day
Mr Roth Miss Gaddy and Mr Becker
it appears to me that you you failed at
your jobs you were entrusted with the
highest level of power at Twitter but
when you were faced within your post
story
instead of allowing people to judge the
information for themselves you rush to
find a reason
why the American people shouldn't see it
in a matter of hours you were deciding
on the truth of a story that spans years
and dozens of complex International
transactions
you did this because you were terrified
of Joe Biden not winning the election in
2020 that's what it appeared
I can assure you this committee
will succeed in holding the bidens
accountable so much of the evidence of
wrongdoing from this family
is located
in that hard drive that you all
led the American people to believe was
Russian disinformation when in fact it
was not
now I agree with Mr Baker's opening
statement
the the concern for me
is
the level of involvement the FBI had
with not just Twitter but all of our
social media platform companies
and I think it
kind of goes in the opposite direction
where my friend the ranking member was
was trying to take this in his opening
statement
this is something this committee should
be concerned about
the government doesn't have any role
in suppressing speech
and that's something the media should be
very concerned about what if there's a
conservative president that somehow
cleans out our FBI and they put in
conservatives
to suppress liberal speech
we don't that's something that that
should never happen so I look forward to
more questions and at this time I I will
I yield to the gentleman from I think I
think I think the chair for yearly Mr
Baker you said you didn't talk with the
FBI that day did you talk to the FBI
about the hunter Biden laptop story
prior to then or after that day
I
um
I'm trying to make sure I can answer
this question consistent with the
restrictions that I talked about in my
open simple questions you talked the FBI
about the hunter Biden story
I do to the best of my recollection I
did not talk to the FBI about the hunter
Biden story uh before that day did you
talk to him after it
you said you're don't response is real
your response is real specific to the
chairman you said I did not talk to the
FBI about the hunter Biden laptop story
that day I assumed that day is October
14th I want to know if you talked to him
on the 13th or before or if he talked to
him on the 15th and after
I don't recall speaking to the FBI
sitting here today I don't recall
speaking to the FBI at all about the
hunter Biden matter well then why'd you
answer why'd you answer it the way you
did a bigger pardon I yield back
chair recognizes Miss Norton for five
minutes
thank you Mr chairman
um
like Benghazi before
Republicans are on a taxpayer-funded
Expedition
to attack their political Rivals and
they're feeding the Flames of conspiracy
in the process
with the release of this so-called
Twitter files Donald Trump has seized
the moment to further his own
conspiracies about the 2020 election
writing in December and I quote do not
throw the presidential election results
of 2020 out
and declare I mean do you throw the
presidential
election results of 2020 out
and declare the rightful winner or do
you have a new election
a massive fraud of this type and
magnitude allows for the termination of
all rules regulations and articles and
even
those found in the Constitution end
quote
now Advance repeating that this is the
same man who incited an insurrection
on January 6 and just last week
reposted a message on Truth social that
suggested his support supporters will
quote and I'm quoting him now physically
fight for him this time and added
they got my six and we
are loaded
and I mean loaded this is a question for
Miss navarrodly
uh
what did the phrase locked and loaded
mean to you
while you were at Twitter Twitter
prior to January 6th
yes thank you for that question uh the
way that I read locked and loaded to be
interpreted by the tweets that I saw
coming on Twitter prior to January 6 was
that individuals were loaded or were had
were armed excuse me and that they were
ready to commit violence
are you concerned
that the use of this language
will continue to incite and legitimize
political violence leading to the next
election
absolutely we are sitting exactly one
month in which the exact same Playbook
was played in Brazil when we saw almost
Deja Vu happening again as I said in my
opening statement unless we do something
this will continue to happen again
uh thank you Miss navaroli Mr Roth
um
you are no stranger to conspiracies and
their real world consequences
if you don't mind can you please
describe for the committee how the
release
of the so-called Twitter files
has affected your personal safety
thank you for the question congresswoman
the Twitter files I would note first and
foremost didn't just affect me but
affected much more Junior employees at
Twitter employees as far away as Manila
in the Philippines were doxed had their
families threatened and experienced harm
equal to or greater than what I've
experienced but concurrent with the
Twitter files Elon Musk also made the
decision to share a defamatory
allegation that I support or condone
pedophilia and this lie led directly to
a wave of homophobic and anti-semitic
threats and harassment against me of
which Twitter has removed vanishingly
little
and following the daily mail's decision
to publish where I live ultimately I had
to leave my home and sell it those are
the consequences for this type of online
harassment and speech
oh that's I must say those are very real
consequences
uh by legitimizing unsubstantiated
conspiracy theories
about the Deep State big Tech and
government and government censorship for
political gain committee Republicans are
holding a match to a powder keg
we all saw the consequences of this kind
of rhetoric on January 6 and we continue
to see it play out as political violence
and hate crimes grip communities around
the country and I yield back Mr chairman
lady yields back chair recognize Miss
mace for five minutes thank you Mr
chairman the Twitter fires files were
not just about Hunter Biden's laptop
Twitter files make it apparent Twitter
worked overtime to suppress accurate
coveted information Dr Jay baracharia is
a professor of medicine at Stanford who
once tweeted an article he wrote about
natural immunity thanks to Elon musk's
release of the Twitter files we learned
some of his tweets were tagged with the
label of Trends Blacklist apparently the
views of a Stanford doctor are
disinformation to you people
I along with many Americans have
long-term effects from Cova Not only was
I a long hauler but I have effects from
the vaccine it wasn't the first shot but
it was the second shot that I now
developed asthma that has never gone
away since I had the second shot I have
Tremors in my left hand and I have the
occasional heart pain that no doctor can
explain and I've had a battery of tests
I find it extremely alarming Twitter's
unfettered censorship spread into
medical fields and affected millions of
Americans by suppressing expert opinions
from doctors and censoring those who
disagree with the CDC I have great
regrets about getting the shot because
of the health issues that I now have
that I don't think are ever going to go
away and I know that I'm not the only
American who has those kinds of concerns
another example of what Twitter has done
to censor folks is uh from Dr Martin
coldor if Harvard educated
epidemiologist who once tweeted covid
vaccines are important for high-risk
people and their caretakers those with
prior natural infection do not need it
nor children
the Twitter files reveal this tweet was
deemed false information because it ran
contrary to the CDC
so my first question this morning of
Miss Gaddy may I ask of you where did
you go to medical school
I did not go to medical school I'm sorry
I did not go to medical school that's
what I thought why do you think you or
anyone else at Twitter had the medical
expertise to censor a doctor's expert
opinion
our policies regarding covid were
designed to protect individuals we were
seeing you guys censored Harvard
educated doctors Stanford educated
doctors doctors that are educated in the
best places in the world and you
silenced those voices
my next question is did the U.S
government excuse me I have another
chart I want to show you miss Gaddy I
have another tweet by someone with a
following of a full 18 000 followers
this person put a chart from the CDC on
Twitter it's the cdc's own at data so
it's accurate by your standards and you
all labeled this as misleading you're
not a doctor right Miss Gatti
no I'm not okay what makes you think you
or anyone else of Twitter have the
medical expertise to censor actual
accurate CDC data
I'm not familiar with these particular
situations yeah I'm sure you're not but
this is what Twitter did they labeled
this as inaccurate it is the
government's own data it's ridiculous
that we're even having to have this
conversation today it's not just about
the laptop this is about medical advice
that expert doctors we're trying to give
Americans because social media companies
like Twitter were silencing their voices
I have another question my last one for
you miss uh Miss Gaddy did the U.S
government ever contact you or anyone at
Twitter to pressure Twitter to moderate
or censor certain tweets
yes or no
we have a program did the U.S government
ever contact you or anyone at Twitter to
censor or moderate certain tweets yes or
no we receive legal demands to remove
content from the platform from the U.S
government and governments all around
the world those are published on a third
party website and anyone can review
thank God for Matt taibi thank God for
Elon Musk for allowing to show us in the
world that Twitter was basically a
subsidiary of the FBI censoring real
medical voices with real expertise that
put Real Americans lives in danger
because they didn't have that
information I also want to thank one of
my colleagues rokana because it as it
turns out censorship isn't just an
important issue to conservatives some of
my colleagues on the other side of the
aisle like row found this censorship
very concerning and even wrote to you
and the folks at Twitter that he was
concerned about the first amendment
being censored so I want to thank him
for speaking up and speaking out about
this issue because this is not this
should not be a partisan issue this
should be an issue that's an American
issue Mr chairman I would like to enter
into the record I asked unanimous
consent to enter into the record a Wall
Street Journal article from December 9
2022 by Justin Hart entitled the Twitter
back blacklisting of Jay badacheria and
to the record please Mr without
objection to ordered thank you and I
yield back chair recognizes Mr Lynch for
five minutes
thank you Mr chairman
I just want to go over the chronology
here Mr Roth back in 2016 Russia and
Vladimir Putin engaged in what
bipartisan Senate intelligence committee
investigators called a and I quote
aggressive multifaceted effort to
influence the outcome of that Year's
presidential election the campaign
included hacking of the systems of major
a major political party and leaking
illegally obtained information scanning
U.S election systems for vulnerabilities
and exploiting the weaknesses of social
media platforms to spread disinformation
to the American people
again in a 2017 Declassified report the
U.S intelligence Community assessed that
Russia's 2016 election operations
signaled a quote New Normal in Russian
influence efforts and that the Kremlin
would quote apply Lessons Learned going
forward against the U.S and its allies
Mr Roth in a December interview with
journalist Cara Swisher you state that
this Declassified assessment was quote
and I'm quoting you a watershed moment
in the history of content moderation and
the internet close quote you also stated
in that interview uh
that Twitter discussed potential threats
to the Integrity of the 2020 elections
and it was quote and I'm quoting you
again obvious to think about the most
influential thing that impacted the 2016
election which was the hack and leak
campaign organized by the Russian
government and that quote we would have
been stupid not to think about that risk
Mr Roth
why would Twitter have been stupid to
ignore that that risk
I think Twitter and the entire social
media industry were frankly caught with
their pants down in 2016 and missed an
opportunity to do the critical work of
protecting election security this isn't
my judgment this is the Judgment of
academics and researchers who've spent
years studying Russian active measures
and most of their conclusions suggest
that the number one most influential
part of the Russian active measures
campaign in 2016 was the hack and leak
targeting John podesta
it would have been foolish not to
consider the possibility that they would
run that play again right and and so
let me ask was was that top of mind for
for Twitter you're trying to you're
trying to measure the credibility of
incoming uh intelligence uh was that top
of mind uh in in regard to your decision
the company's decision to temporarily
limit the distribution of the October
14th New York Post story that was
delivered by uh mayor Giuliani
yes that was one of the animating
concerns for us for nearly two years we
had engaged in scenario planning
exercises for potential risks tied to
the elections and one of them appeared
to be happening that day now again I
think the facts were complicated and I I
do believe Twitter made a mistake then
but our judgment was colored by the
experience of 2016 and by the very real
Russian activities that we saw play out
that year
Mr rothin into December 2020 sworn
declaration to the FEC you said that
starting in 2018 you had quote regular
meetings with the office of the Director
of National Intelligence the Department
of Homeland Security the FBI and
Industry peers regarding election
security is that correct
expected hack and leak operations by
state actors that might occur in the
period shortly before the 2020
presidential election likely in October
and that there were quote rumors that a
hack and leak operation would involve
Hunter Biden post quote is that your
recollection today
it is but I want to clarify that
sentence slightly I think it actually
should have been two separate sentences
it is true that in meetings between
industry and law enforcement law
enforcement discussed the possibility of
a hack and leak campaign in the lead-up
to the election and in one of those
meetings it was discussed I Believe by
another company that there was a
possibility that that hack and leak
could relate to Hunter Biden and barisma
I don't believe that perspective was
shared by law enforcement they didn't
endorse it they didn't provide that
information
just to fast forward here uh and in fact
in March 2021 four months after the
election uh the U.S intelligence
Community assessed that Russian
President Putin authorized an a range of
of government organizations conducted
influence operations aimed at denigrated
President Biden's candidacy and the
Democratic party supporting former
president Trump in undermining public
confidence in the electoral process and
exacerbating social political divisions
in the U.S that obviously rid their head
on January 6th Mr chairman my time has
expired and I yield back
gentlemen yields back chair recognizes
Mr Jordan for five minutes thank you Mr
chairman Mr Roth did the government tell
you that the Biden laptop story was fake
no sorry they did not they tell you it
was hacked no sir they did not on
October 14 2020 Twitter blocks the New
York Post story on the hunter Biden uh
the New York Post story on Hunter Biden
and suspends their account the night
before FBI special agent Elvis Chan
sends you an email the email says this
heads up I will be sending a teleporter
link for you to download 10 documents
it's not spam please confirm receipt
when you get it two minutes later 6 24
PM you respond back received and
downloaded thanks
what were those 10 documents
Twitter didn't give me access to my
laptop but special agent Chan has said
publicly and the FBI has confirmed that
those documents did not relate to Hunter
Biden and that's my recollection of that
what did they relate to
my interactions with agent Chan and with
the FBI almost entirely focused on what
the FBI called malign foreign
interference things like Russian troll
farms and Iranian involvement in the
elections not on any type of domestic we
need the information on their classified
no sir I do not hold a security
clearance and so I would not have
received any classified information who
does hold a security clearance I'll just
go to the second email here I'm just
curious about this uh what I propose is
that 30 days out from the election this
is a this is another email to you from
Mr Chan 30 day you get we get uh
temporary clearances you pick who they
are who are the people at Twitter who
had a security
to be honest sir I'm not sure and we
never ultimately followed through on
this plan to get temporary clearances
did anyone at Twitter have a security
clearance it's my understanding that at
least some current or former employees
did hold clearances but I wasn't certain
about it Miss daddy do you know if
anyone took up Mr Chan's offer to hand
out security clearances 30 days before
the 2020 election not that I'm aware so
we don't know how many people had
security clearances
Twitter do we know Mr Baker Mr gatty and
Miss Gaddy anyone know how many people
on Twitter had a security clearance in
30 days prior to the election
I don't know the answer to that question
Miss Gatti I do not know
Mr Roth you don't know no sir how about
the last one miss navaroli do you know
no I mean it seemed like the offer was a
sort of just hand them out like candy I
just wondering who had him
no one knows okay uh did so the FBI
didn't tell you uh that that it was fake
didn't tell you that it was hacked uh
and and Mr Roth did the did the story
violate your policies
in my judgment at the time no it did not
yeah that's what you said said what I
would propose excuse me as you said it
isn't clearly a violation of our hack
materials policy nor is it clearly a
violation of anything else
so I think what a lot of people are
wondering is if it didn't violate your
policies
and they didn't tell you it was fake
didn't tell you it was hacked why'd you
take it down
the company made a decision that found
that it did violate the policy it wasn't
my personal Judgment at the time that it
did but the decision was communicated to
me by my direct supervisor and
ultimately I didn't disagree with it
enough to object it you know you know
what you know what I think happened Mr
Roth I think I think you guys got played
I think you guys wanted to wanted to
take it deep down we saw what but the
chairman put up where you said you know
everyone in the white house isn't as a
fascist I think you guys wanted to be
taken down
I think you meet with these guys every
week we know that's been established in
the Twitter files you had weekly
meetings with Mr Chan and the run-up to
the election they send you all kinds of
emails they send you documents on the
super secret James Bond teleporter you
get information on that
I think you guys wanted to take it down
I think you guys got played by the FBI
and that's the scary part
because we had 50 I mean this to me is
the real takeaway 51 former intelligence
officials five days after you guys take
down the hunter Biden story and block
the New York Post account five days
later 51 former Intel officials send a
letter and they say the hunter Biden
story has all the classic earmarks of a
Russian information operation
the information operation was run on you
guys
and then by extension run on the
American people and that's the concern
and to Mr raskin's point that you guys
aren't Bound by the First Amendment
because you're a private company okay
maybe so
but your and your terms of service don't
have to comply with the First Amendment
would that be right Mr Roth they don't
have to you've said that as much in your
testimony
my understanding of the first amendment
is that it protects people and
businesses from government not
understand what I'm in your term to
service so here's what I want to know
here's what I want to know is this is
this a violation of the first amendment
when the government Mr Chan again
sending you an email saying we think
these accounts need to be looked at
because they violate your terms of
service that's a different standard so
you got the government saying your terms
of service which don't have to comply
with the First Amendment but the
government's saying we don't think these
accounts comply with your terms of
service please take them down
you see a problem there Mr Mr Roth
Mr chairman I'm seeing a flashing red
light I'm happy to answer the question
um
do I think that that's a valuable use of
the FBI's time no but I don't see in a
request for review a problem under the
First Amendment no I sure do I I thank
the general you're back
chair recognize Mr Conley for five
minutes thank you Mr chairman
My my what happens when you hold a
hearing and you can't prove your point
um
we heard from the chairman of the
opening statement that uh it's wrong for
government to call Twitter and say take
down a tweet
did I hear that correct Mr Roth
that was my understanding yes yeah
so on May 27th 2020
president Donald J Trump tweeted and I
quote Republicans feel that social media
platforms totally silence conservatives
by the way something that would come as
news to you apparently Mr Roth because
you're still the subject of conservative
harassment
we will strongly regulate he went on to
say or close them down before we ever
allow this to happen unquote Miss
navaroli doesn't that sound eerily like
a government official telling Twitter
that there's a threat will shut you down
if we don't like the content
I am not familiar with the tweet that
you have referenced well but if I just
told you that quote without telling you
who said it might it have some ominous
overtones from your point of view if
you're still at Twitter
will shut you down will regulate you we
will never allow this to happen
those are pretty strong words they are
yeah
okay on September 8th 2019 at 11 11 pm
Donald Trump heckled two celebrities on
Twitter
uh John Legend and his wife Chrissy
Teigen
and referred to them as the musician
John Legend and his filthy-mouthed wife
unquote
Miss Teigen responded to that email
at 12 17 am
and according to notes from a
conversation with you miss navaroli's
counsel your Council the White House
almost immediately thereafter contacted
Twitter to demand the Tweet be taken
down is that accurate
thank you for the question in my role I
was not responsible for receiving any
sort of request from the government
however what I was privy to was my
supervisors letting us know that we had
received something along those lines or
something of a request in that
particular instance I do remember
hearing that we had received a request
from the White House to make sure that
we evaluated this tweet and that they
wanted it to come down because it was a
derogatory statement
they wanted it to come down they made
that request to my recollection I
thought that was an inappropriate action
by a government official let alone the
White House
but it wasn't Joe Biden about his son's
laptop it was Donald Trump because he
didn't like what Chrissy Teigen had to
say about him is that correct yes that
is correct
my my
um
you ever think it's appropriate for the
president of the United States to direct
or otherwise influence a social media
company to take down its content
I think it's a very slippery slope
Mr Roth
Miss Gaddy Mr Baker any evidence that
Joe Biden's ever done that
certainly none that I'm aware of no
I don't recall anything like that I'm
sorry that President Biden did what sir
has Joe Biden ever called Twitter to
your knowledge or his White House at his
best to take down content or urge you to
take down content
I don't know the answer to that question
sir well
I'm going to have to conclude at least
from three of the four you don't know
there's no evidence he's ever done that
but there's plenty of evidence
Donald Lee Trump tried to do that
and
um if we're going to have a hearing
about the misuse of social media and the
intrusion of government
in
the content on social media
we've got an environment rich
Target but it's not Joe Biden
it's Donald J Trump and of course we
don't want to talk about that we don't
want to talk about Russian Bots and
Russian Fabrications using fake accounts
on Twitter to a political purpose and
it's not to help elect Democrats and we
don't want to talk about four years of
Donald Trump manipulating the truth and
trying to manipulate social media and
threaten it uh or directly to try to
shape it by taking down content because
it was critical of him personally
um and that's what we as we move forward
not the subject of today's hearing I
yield back gentleman yields back chair
recognize Mr Donald's for five minutes
uh thank you Mr chairman uh real quick
Mr Roth
um you've stated already that uh what
happened with the the New York Post
story was similar to the hack and leak
scenarios from 2016. you also said that
you've you actually were opposed to
deleting the New York Post uh story
uh who advocated for the removal of the
New York Post story
the company's decision to treat it as a
violation Mr Roth who at the company
actually went over your recommendation
because you're pretty high up who
overrode you
the decision was communicated to me by
my direct supervisor who is that person
her name was Del Harvey she was the vice
president of trust and safety at the
time all right thank you so much uh Miss
Gaddy real quick you said uh to the
chairman earlier and and I want to
paraphrase what I heard earlier is that
Twitter had no contact with anybody from
the Biden team is that correct to your
knowledge
not to my knowledge
okay over my right shoulder we have
an email
reference this is like this is Saturday
October 24th
uh 5 39 PM referencing five different
tweets
is that with a Twitter email chain
under the line it's more to review from
the Biden team
does anybody have a comment on how much
interaction was happening with the Biden
team
at Twitter with respect to tweets that
they wanted Twitter to review
Miss Gaddy Mr Roth
I'm not familiar with this email so
you're not familiar with this email Mr
Roth are you familiar with this email
only from what's been reported in the
Twitter files had you did you ever have
contact with anybody from the Biden team
no sir I did not we explicitly separated
the teams that would interact with
campaigns from teams like mine that were
responsible for Content how big was the
organization in Twitter that was
actually working with campaigns
I couldn't say for sure did you ever
have any contact with the DNC
directly no I did not did anybody at
Twitter have any contact with anybody at
the DNC I think it's likely that
somebody at Twitter did yes
and these in these emails it's listed
these are things these are tweets that
hate to be flagged from the Biden team
that's what's in the files
um you have no idea how many people
actually interfere uh engage with the
Twitter team or how frequently that
engagement happened
no and again that was by Design we kept
those functions separate from content
moderation so that we could impartially
assess reports like do you know how many
tweets were actually flagged and taken
down at the behest of the Biden team
I wouldn't agree with the
characterization of it as being at the
behest of them these tweets were
reported and Twitter independently
evaluated them under it but but the
email is very clear
more to review from Biden team the
response three hours later at the bottom
hold us up real quick so we can see the
request at the bottom it says handled
these
what does handled these mean
my understanding is that these tweets
contained non-consensual nude photos of
Hunter Biden and they were removed by
the company under hello real quick Mr
Rob how could you know so much about the
content of these tweets I mean as far as
I'm concerned these are just web
addresses I don't know what's in these
tweets you have these things committed
to memory that you know the content but
you don't know who you caught who you
talk to at the Biden team
sorry I didn't meet with the Biden team
but there was extensive public reporting
about these tweets specifically that
uncovered what they were you know the
contents of the tweets
I was obviously at Twitter
but you have no idea how often people
who worked in your organization
had with the Biden team during the end
of the 2020 presidential elections
I would emphasize that the people who
interfaced with the campaigns were not
part of my team or organization I would
know what the interactions were if they
were on my team it was a different part
of the organization not mine let me ask
you a separate question and I'll ask it
of YouTube Mr Baker
have you guys been able to quantify the
amount of in-kind contributions
associated with taking down the New York
Post story because the New York Post
story was down for two weeks give or
take
do you have do you have any uh
understanding of how how much that story
was limited by Twitter and also by other
social media companies what the impact
of an in-kind contribution that would be
to the Joe Biden presidential election
in 2020.
I don't know the answer to that question
sir do you think it's big
I don't know do you think it's more than
a maximum contribution to a campaign I
don't I wouldn't want to speculate would
you call it 25 000. I don't know the
answer to that question a hundred
thousand
sir I don't know the answer a million
I don't know the answer the question
do you think Twitter will be in
violation of uh federal election laws
with the size of an in-kind contribution
to take down a story which is true by
the way
because you guys thought you knew
something with limited information
I'm not going to speculate on that uh
sitting here today sir I try to give or
try to propound a legal analysis of
election laws
I yield back
gentleman yields back chair recognizes
Miss ocasio-cortez
it's your turn you want to go okay what
we won't start the clock till you get
there
appreciate also your generosity
um let's uh
start off um right here at the top here
this isn't even my line of questioning
but I'd like to submit to the record a
Washington Post article now warning
about Hunter Biden laptop disinformation
the guy who leaked it
here's the deal before I even get into
my questions I think that the story here
with the New York with the Washington
Post reporting is that what they're
saying right here when the New York Post
first reported in October 2020 that it
had obtained contents of a laptop
computer allegedly owned by Joe Biden's
son Hunter there was an immediate
roadblock faced by other news outlets
that hope to corroborate reporting as
many did the newspaper wasn't sharing
what it obtained New York Post had this
alleged information and was trying to
publish it without any cooperation
without any backup information they were
trying to publish it to Twitter Twitter
did not let them and now they were upset
I believe that political operatives who
sought to inject explosive
disinformation with the Washington Post
couldn't get away with it
and now they're livid and they want the
ability to do it again they want the
ability to inject this again so they've
dragged a social media platform here in
Congress they're weaponizing the use of
this committee so that they can do it
again
a whole hearing about a 24-hour hiccup
in a right-wing political operation that
is why we are here right now and it is
it's just an abuse of public resources
and abuse of public time we can be
talking about health care we could be
talking about bringing down the cost of
prescription drugs we could be talking
about abortion rights Civil Rights
Voting Rights but instead we're talking
about Hunter Biden's half fake laptop
Story I mean this is an embarrassment
but I'll go into it Miss navaroli let's
talk about something real
I'd like to show you a tweet posted by
former president Trump about my
colleagues and I on July 14 2019 it says
in part quote why don't they go back and
help fix the totally broken and
crime-infested places from which they
came then come back and show us how it's
done these places need your help badly
you can't leave fast enough I'm sure
that Nancy Pelosi would be very happy as
quickly to work out free travel
Arrangements a day or two after that
Donald Trump publicly incited you know
violence at a rally targeting for
congresswoman including myself saying go
back to where you came from I miss never
really as I understand it you were the
most senior member of Twitter's content
moderation team or a senior member of
Twitter's content moderation team when
this was posted as part of your
responsibilities did you review this
tweet
yes it was my team's responsibility to
review these tweets and what did you
conclude my team Ray made the
recommendation that for the first time
we find Donald Trump in violation of
Twitter's policies and use the public
interest interstitial for the first time
yes and at the time Twitter's policy
included a specific example when it came
to banned abuse against immigrants as
they specifically included the phrase go
back to your country or go or go back to
where you came from correct yes that was
specifically included in the content
moderation guidance as an example you
brought this up to the vice president of
trust and safety Del Harvey correct I
did yes and she overrode your assessment
didn't she yes she did
um and something interesting happened
after she overrode your assessment a day
or two later Twitter seemed to have
changed their policies didn't they yes
that Trope go back to where you came
from was removed from the content
moderation guidance as an example so
Twitter changed their own policy after
the president violated it in order to
potentially accommodate his tweet yes
thank you
um so much for bias against right wing
on Twitter additionally Miss navaroli
are you familiar with the account Libs
of tick tock
I have heard of it from the news yes
um Mr Roth are you familiar with this
account
yes ma'am I am
are you aware from that from August 11th
to August 16th that account posted false
information about Boston Children's
Hospital claiming that they were
providing hysterectomies
to children
yes I am aware of that and other claims
from the account and are you aware that
this lie was then circulated by other
prominent far-right influencers
yes
and are you aware that all these claims
uh which I have reiterated were false
culminated in a real-life harassment and
ultimately a bomb threat
to the Boston Children's Hospital
yes I am aware and this account is still
on that platform today isn't it
regrettably yes it is despite inspiring
a bomb threat due to the right-wing
incitement of violence against trans
Americans in this country
because they cannot
let go of this obsession
with fixating violence and inciting
violence against trans and LGBT people
in addition to immigrants in addition to
women of color this is a party that
cannot pick on anyone their own size
and they are trying to co-opt an entire
social media platform and use the power
of this committee and of Congress in
order to pursue a political agenda I
yield back
lady yields back chair recognizes Mr
Frye for five minutes
thank you Mr chairman this this hearing
shows who really has been in control of
what is said to be the one of the
world's most widely used websites
Twitter the American people probably
didn't know who these Witnesses were
today but these Witnesses were powerful
enough to silence an American president
with just a few clicks from their
California office we're also learning
that some of those in Washington DC have
forgotten their role and exercised their
power to achieve ends antithetical to
American principles of free speech and
expression the FBI is the lead Federal
agency responsible for investigating
foreign influence operations however in
recent years the FBI has devoted
countless amounts of time taxpayer money
and manpower to combating Russian
foreign influence on social media the
FBI is one reporter noted acted as a
quote doorman to the vast program of
social media surveillance and censorship
encompassing agencies across the federal
government from the state department to
the Pentagon to the CIA end quote
reports suggests that thousands of
reports from the FBI and the foreign
influence task force were sent to
Twitter this isn't what the American
people are paying for this isn't what we
trust the FBI to do FBI agents shouldn't
be sitting at a desk in Washington DC
scrolling through Twitter and emailing
with social media companies an email
from one Twitter employee to another
reads quote the FBI San Francisco
Emergency Operations Center sent us the
attached report of 207 tweets they
believed may be in violation of our
policies end quote another email
revealed that there are quote some folks
in the Baltimore Field office and at
headquarters that are just doing
keyboard searches for violations
Mr Roth Twitter usually found little
evidence that the accounts the FBI
flagged had ties to foreign influence is
that correct
in part but we've received many reports
from the FBI particularly related to
malign foreign interference that were
highly credible and were constructive so
I would say it was a bit of a mixed bag
and you pushed back to the FBI when you
would when they would send you a list of
american-based accounts is that correct
politely but yes
Mr Roth it appears that Twitter
employees were under pressure by the FBI
and other government agencies to
validate these theories of foreign
influence would you agree with that
no I wouldn't agree with the word
pressure the FBI was quite careful and
quite consistent to request review of
the accounts but not to cross the line
into advocating for Twitter to take any
particular action so flagging American
accounts and your view is not is not
foreign or theories of foreign influence
is not there's not pressure there just
by flagging it to you I got domestic
accounts I don't think it's a great use
of the bureau's time but I wouldn't
characterize how they communicated with
us as pressure
Mr Roth you enjoyed these meetings with
the FBI it seems uh based on the tweets
behind me or the the communications
behind me in internal Communications at
Twitter you said definitely not meeting
with the FBI I swear is that correct
I believe I was joking with a colleague
at the time but yes but I can assume
that you were meeting with the FBI
when you were communicating with your
colleague is that correct yes one of my
job responsibilities was meeting with
law enforcement about election security
and just so I'm clear the person you're
communicating with here says very boring
business meeting that is definitely not
about Trump I assume that's also sarcasm
yes that's my assumption and we can
assume that Twitter was having these
meetings with the FBI about President
Trump correct
no sir the meetings that I was a part of
with the FBI were almost entirely and
exclusively focused on malign foreign
interference so accounts being operated
outside of the United States by other
governments not on the accounts of
Americans so so what is the basis of
this communication then where you talk
about not meeting with Trump
or not meeting about Trump again I think
those comments are sarcasm but the
context for this interaction was the
need to mark my calendar private after
another Twitter employee joined one of
those meetings with the FBI unexpectedly
and so I had to implement additional
security measures around my calendar
this was a fairly banal interaction with
a colleague
Mr chairman I yield the rest of my time
to
Mr Jordan Mr Jordan I think the
gentlemen for yielding um Mr Roth was
there ever any visibility filtering that
was hard-coded by Twitter employees into
accounts of specific users
Twitter employees were responsible for
building the systems that performed
visibility filtering and then that
filtering would have been applied either
automatically I'm asking a very specific
question I'm asking was the code written
in a way that for certain accounts those
accounts unique in and of themselves
would be visibility filtering to use
your term so that they wouldn't have as
much reach or as much influence
the term hard coding suggests that it
was permanent and immutable and I
wouldn't agree with that no but it did
happen is what you're saying there was
hard-coded into some of these accounts
of specific users by Twitter employees
this ability to filter and limit the
reach of that particular post or that
particular tweet I should say
again I wouldn't say that they were
hard-coded
thank you chair recognizes Ms Brown for
five minutes
thank you chairman Comer and ranking
member Raskin for holding this hearing
today
social media social media has been a
revolutionary gift of the 21st century
from helping people across the world
build meaningful connections to learning
a new skill set these platforms have
played a significant role in creating an
interconnected Global World when handled
responsibly social media serves as a
useful resource with many positive
outcomes
however social media is not without its
flaws and the challenges are much larger
than any specific incident or decision
by one private company
recently social media has contributed to
the rise and amplification of domestic
extremist content and organizing this is
extremely concerning and unfortunately
is contributing to the division in of
our society
according to an Anti-Defamation League
survey 66 percent of the lgbtq plus
respondents that's a full two-thirds
experienced harassment online
37 percent of Jewish respondents and 34
percent of African Americans respondents
said the same
this is truly disturbing
the power that social media has to
inspire real world action both good and
bad is well known to all of us
and sadly the hate online does not stay
online
social media has the power to influence
not just here at home but those who are
watching us abroad for example an online
disinformation campaign by a hostile
foreign power can have the power to sway
a close election
so Mr Roth in a recent interview you
stated and I quote beginning in 2017
every platform Twitter included started
to invest really heavily in building out
an election Integrity function
so I ask were those Investments driven
in part by bipartisan concerns raised by
Congress and the U.S government after
the Russian influence operation in the
2016 presidential election
thank you for the question yes those
concerns were fundamentally bipartisan
the Senate's investigation of Russian
active measures was a bipartisan effort
the report was bipartisan and I think we
all share concerns with what Russia is
doing to meddle in our elections
thank you so much did those Investments
include better information sharing
mechanisms with the federal government
yes I think one of the key failures that
we identified after 2016 was that there
was very little information coming from
the government and from intelligence
services to the private sector the
private sector had the power to remove
Bots and to take down foreign
disinformation campaigns but we didn't
always know where to look without leads
supplied by the intelligence community
that was one of the failures highlighted
in the Senate intelligence committee's
report and in the Mueller investigation
and that was one of the things we set
out to fix in 2017. thank you for that
and Mr Roth were those communication
channels useful to Twitter as it worked
to combat foreign influence operations
absolutely I would say they were one of
the most essential pieces of how Twitter
prepared for future elections
much so clearly we must come together as
a committee to stand up and protect our
country from foreign election
interference and disinformation I
sincerely look forward to spending more
time with this committee working to
understand how to fight back against our
adversaries and strengthen our democracy
and with that Mr chairman I yield back
thank you very much chair recognizes
Miss green for five minutes
thank you Mr chairman Mr Baker Miss
Gaddy Mr Roth and miss navaroli you can
consider your speech canceled during my
time because you canceled mine
you see you permanently banned my
personal Twitter account and it was my
campaign account also so let's talk
about election interference shall we
January 2nd 2002 you permanently banned
my Twitter account
this was the account that I would put my
campaign ads on raise money on fight
back when attacked with lies and be able
to talk to my voters in my district but
you banned it and then let me explain my
account was not reinstated until
November 21st
2022. that was after my election on
November 8th
you know at your company or your former
company where you worked Twitter
employees over 98 of them donate to
Democrats so while you coordinated with
DHS the FBI the CIA our government and
outside groups to permanently ban Shadow
ban conservative Americans and
candidates like me and the former
president of the United States President
Donald J Trump
you were censoring and wrongfully
violating our first amendment Free
Speech rights guess what none of you
hold security clearances none of you are
elected and none of you represent 750
000 people like I do
let's explain 52 United States law
10101 no person shall intimidate
threaten coerce or attempt to stop any
other person for the purpose of
interfering with their rights to vote or
to vote as he may choose you didn't
Shadow ban or permanently ban my
Democrat opponent no you did that to me
and that was wrong and it was against
the law
you see not only that was it was it me
that you violated my first amendment
rights you violated countless
conservative Americans these were
doctors that were trying to tell the
truth about covid doctors that were
having success treating people with
Ivermectin that you all would not allow
to be talked about on your platform
these were parents complaining about
their school boards teaching gender lies
in their schools biological males
entering their daughter's bathrooms and
sports
these were also people questioning the
2020 election and guess what that's
Americans First Amendment right these
were people talking about voting
machines you know what Democrats did
that in 2019. before the 2020 election
on Twitter people could question
elections such as 2016 saying Hillary
won but in 2020 no one could question
elections saying Trump won
you abused the power of a large
corporation big Tech to censor Americans
and you want to know something guess
what I'm so glad that you're censored
down I'm so glad you've lost your jobs
thank God Elon Elon Musk bought Twitter
and you know what let's talk about
something a little bit further
it's amazing to me Mr Roth as the head
and Trust of safety at Twitter
your ability or should I say inability
to remove child porn
now here's something that disgusted me
about you and your doctoral dissertation
entitled gay data you argued that minors
should have access to grinder an adult
male gay hookup app miners really
you know Elon Musk took over Twitter and
he banned 44 000 accounts that were
promoting child porn you permanently
banned my Twitter account but you
allowed child child porn all over
Twitter
had become a platform you said
connecting queer young adults you also
wrote on Twitter in 2010 can high school
students ever meaningfully consent to
sex with their teachers
in 2021 while you were the director of
trust and safety on Twitter an underage
boy and his mother announced a lawsuit
against Twitter
because because Twitter was benefiting
from and refused to remove a lewd video
featuring this boy and another minor
that is repulsive but you violated me
what did what were my tweets okay let's
talk about them I was talking about the
deaths being reported on bears
by the way that's on the CDC website
I was also saying that I didn't think
the any entity should enforce a non-da
non-fda approved vaccine or mask
guess what a lot of people agreed with
me but you called that coveted
misinformation by the way I'm a member
of Congress and you're not
I also said the controversial coveted 19
vaccines should not be forced on our
military you want to know something
Republicans stop that in the ndaa ladies
time is expired
and your time is expired I yield back
thank you Mr chairman uh chair
recognizes Mr Gomez
uh thank you Mr chairman uh Mr Roth uh
please explain to us why Miss uh uh
Marjorie Taylor green or the
representatives from Georgia was removed
from Twitter
thank you for the question congressman
my recollection is that her personal
account was banned from Twitter after
repeated written notices due to repeated
violations of the Twitter rules
can you add a little specificity to the
violation of the Twitter rules
yes again I didn't have access to my
Twitter email documents anything that
would have let me prepare to answer that
in more detail but my recollection is
that the congresswoman repeatedly
violated Twitter's policies about
sharing misinformation about covid-19
she received multiple written warnings
about that conduct she received multiple
timeouts related to that conduct and
then ultimately consistent with the
written and published policy those
repeated violations resulted in her
account being permanently suspended uh
Mr chairman oh in essence I'd like to
take a point of personal privilege that
it's still my time we'll stop we'll stop
still my year clocks
um
I don't believe that members of this
committee have the right to interrupt
someone's testimony because they're
random personal privilege you were
mentioning my name Mr rasky you know I
understand but that's not the rule Ms
Green I don't think a member that is the
role in Congress well then I'd like to
take parliamentary to rule on whether
any member of this committee has the
right to interrupt or Witnesses
testimony because they mentioned the
name of a member of Congress you
mentioned my name Mr Raskin yeah I'm not
testifying
chair recognize Ms Green thank you for
your point of privilege very briefly
thank you
um uh for Mr Roth who who made you in
charge of what is true uh
does she get to reopen her questions
that we'll we'll
go back to
Mr Gomez and Mr Gomez please remember
the the decorum of the committee uh the
clock will restart the clock now we you
didn't lose any time chair recognize Mr
Coleman thank you so much um The Gentle
lady from Georgia was suspended from
Twitter for for knowingly and
consistently spreading conspiracy
theories about covid-19 vaccine right
which is shameful shameful especially in
a pandemic where Millions uh million
people have lost their lives
um with that I yield my rest of my time
to the gentleman from New York Mr Gold
uh Goldman thank you uh Mr Gomez
um let's talk about these so-called
Twitter files uh which my Republican
colleagues seem to think are God's gift
to journalism in one about the hunter
Biden laptop the author says that every
single fact in the New York Post story
was accurate and chairman Comer I notice
you blew up the cover of that New York
Post story which I appreciate you doing
that because I'd like to dig into this
article the very first paragraph says
Hunter Biden introduced his father to a
top executive at a Ukrainian any energy
firm less than a year before the
elderbite and pressured government
officials in Ukraine into firing a
prosecutor who was investigating the
company
that is false 100 percent false is the
gentleman sure about that
yes in fact I am sure about that and as
the lead counsel in the first
impeachment investigation we proved that
he was actually fired because he was not
Prosecuting corruption not that he was
fired because he was Prosecuting
corruption corruption that the
president's son's company I'm sorry with
gentleman yield Corruption of the
president's son's company I'd like to
reclaim my time
gentleman's recognized
the fact that Joe Biden fired consistent
with U.S policy and every single
European country the prosecutor General
in Ukraine because he did not prosecute
corruption including at companies like
barisma has been proven over and over
and over
and if you want to know who actually
prosecuted barisma chairman Comer you
should talk to the British authorities
because they were the ones who were
Prosecuting barisma and they couldn't
get any cooperation from the Ukrainian
prosecutor General so that's why he was
fired so right off the top the very
first paragraph of this so-called
bombshell story is completely false
now
what are the what is the allegation that
we are hearing from our Republican
colleagues about the connection to Joe
Biden and barisma
it is an email
from a barisma employee thanking Hunter
Biden for organizing a meeting with the
Vice President Biden we know nothing
about the substance of that meeting we
know nothing about how long they met it
was not on Vice President Biden's
schedule
and in fact I would ask my Republican
colleagues do you meet with foreign
businessmen do you meet with foreign
diplomats
if we were to say to you every single
time you met with somebody that you
discussed something that you're voting
on how would you react it's Preposterous
and chairman Comer you have said in your
opening statement that Joe Biden lied to
the American people that is a bold bold
accusation and so far we've seen no
actual evidence of any lies or any
support for Joe Biden being involved in
anything having to do with Ukraine other
than promoting U.S former policy and I
hope that you are not abusing the power
as chairman of this of this committee
and that you are not wasting taxpayer
dollars on a fishing Expedition into a
civilian child of a president for
political purposes I yield back
the German yielded a quick question you
don't have to it's your choice
you'll
yeah yeah please so I would love to
discuss this
are you admitting that Joe Biden did get
the prosecutor in Ukraine fired
I think it's very clear that Vice
President Biden along with all of our
allies in Europe
pressured Ukraine to fire a corrupt
prosecutor General who was not charging
corruption cases that would have
included potentially barisma corruption
with his son's company
yes in fact if what he wanted was the
prosecutor General to prosecute
corruption and the allegations that you
are making and that the Russians are
making because this is all part of
Russian propaganda is that he uh barisma
was corrupt and was uh and Joe Biden was
trying to stop an investigation into
barisma that is categorically false and
there is no evidence of it
Mr chairman we're gonna we're gonna
recognize one more speaker we've been
requested by the uh presenters for a
brief bathroom break if if you'll allow
us we have one more questioner and then
we'll take that break chair recognizes
Mr Timmons for five minutes and then
we'll have a five to two minute break
Mr Gibbons famous chairman
we have a big picture problem right now
and we're talking about Twitter
specifically in Hunter Biden's laptop
but it's not just that it's the general
trend of the media social media the FBI
doj
doing one side's bidding that's the
issue there's mistakes that have been
made and we keep looking back at these
mistakes and say oh that shouldn't have
happened that way we are going to have a
new policy to avoid that from happening
again but every mistake benefits one
side every mistake benefits one side
let's go back to 2016. the Democrat
National Committee and the Clinton
campaign paid Fusion GPS to create to
fabricate not create to fabricate the
steel dossier which was the basis of
this entire Russia collusion
investigation special counsel we spent
40 million dollars pursuing it there was
no evidence of the Trump campaign
colluding with Russia there was none it
was actually fabricated by the Democrats
in the Clinton campaign to create a
narrative to damage president Trump so
that was a mistake we all know that now
that was the conclusion of that
investigation so
and as a side note that's why Adam
Schiff is no longer on Intel because he
lied about that investigation he said as
the chair of Intel I have all this
information he abused his position and
that's why he was removed from Intel so
next we go to 2020. another mistake
we have something that is real labeled
as something that is fake
we tell the American people that we're
going to have an honest open
conversation about about issues about
challenges that our country faces and we
have everybody has their own facts
congressman from New York is mentioning
his facts it's just very bizarre that
Hunter Biden making tens of thousands of
dollars a month with no credentials from
a business in Ukraine uh whether they're
being investigated who knows I mean
these are all speculation and it's it's
something the American people can't
really digest because we don't know the
answers to it and when we're told the
answers
by our government by big corporations by
big Tech and they're repeatedly wrong it
creates a trust issue
it creates a trust issue so the American
people do not trust
do not trust what they're being told
they do not trust what they're being
told we're going to dig into the
Hunter Biden laptop briefly
um Jack Dorsey has said that he did not
make that decision
um Miss Gaddy did you make the decision
to censor the 100 by laptop story
yes I was involved in that decision who
was the final Arbiter because Mr Roth
has said he disagreed with that decision
who was the final person that said we're
going to do this I ultimately approve
that decision okay thank you Mr Roth you
have said previously that you did not
believe that the New York Post story
violated any any policy um you've said
that multiple times today how many times
other than this one did
Apollo did something get banned or
flagged that you disagreed with
is this the only one
no sir not at all okay so you these are
just repeatedly Twitter repeatedly
banned and censored material
that you thought shouldn't be censored
is that fair
these are challenging judgment calls and
I think reasonable Minds can differ
about whether a given piece of time but
on this one you did disagree
um I just want to say
the American people need to have valid
information to process decisions I would
argue that denying the American people
the substance of Hunter Biden's laptop
story was in 100 Biden's laptop was
wrong you got photos and text messages
of Hunter Biden committing multiple
felonies which was never actually
criminal there were no criminal charges
must be nice uh Hunter Biden and James
Biden were negotiating deals with
Chinese Communist Party agents one of
whom Hunter Biden classified as the Spy
chief of China
we have evidence at least one of
Hunter's deals with Chinese Communist
Party linked entities Joe Biden was
given a 10 Equity stake in the joint
venture you have evidence that the
bidens were trying to sell America's
natural resources to the Chinese and
this is my personal favorite
evidence that the bidens and the Chinese
Energy company
owned by the Chinese Communist Party had
leased office space no further than
three miles from where we're sitting
right now
and the man running for president had
his own office in that office space his
own personal office
you think the American people deserve to
know that
I do I think that there's a lot of smoke
surrounding the Biden's relationship
with the Chinese Communist Party there's
a lot of smoke surrounding the Biden's
relationship with Ukraine
um and they deserve to have the facts to
make a decision for themselves
you all got it wrong in 2016 with
Russian collusion you got it wrong with
Hunter Biden's laptop in 2020 you got it
wrong regarding covet at every turn
the American people deserve better well
the gentleman yield gentleman yield with
German yield for a question
yes
than Mr raskins Mr Baker did you talk to
any of the 51 former Intel officials who
sent the now famous letter on October 19
2020 saying that the Russian uh of the
story in the New York Post had all the
classic earmarks of a Russian
information operation have you talked to
any of those 51 prior to that letter
being sent on the 19th or after
uh sir I can't remember who's on that
group but Clapper Brennan moral I've
talked to those people during the course
of my career yes have you talked to him
well in your time at Twitter
I can't remember who's on that list so I
I'm how about the three I just mentioned
Clapper and broker
regular order last question
but feel free to answer
then we'll recognize Mr Ashley well I
was going to ask the gentleman before he
left whether he's denying uh the Russian
disinformation propaganda campaign that
we've heard about from Witnesses where
he's just denying Russian collusion
which was something that Mr Mueller
specifically did not address in his
final report he said collusion is not a
legal concept he was looking just a
conspiracy and he said there wasn't
substantial enough evidence to charge
conspiracy but there were dozens of
contacts between Donald Trump and the
Russians that were documented in that
report that's all I wanted to say chair
recognizes Mr Jordan then we'll recess
for just to recite the question that's
on the table to uh to Mr Baker did he
talk with Mr Clapper Mr Brennan or
anyone else that he knows of on on that
who signed that point of order whose
time is this this uh Chairman's
remaining three seconds of uh he doesn't
have remaining time okay he's gone over
by a minute we're over
Mr Baker feel free to answer the
question if you want and then we'll take
a recess Mr Mr Jordan I don't recall
discussing that publication that they
did about the hunter Biden laptop with
any of those people we will stand in
recess for five minutes when we return
Mr Garcia will
begin our questioning we're in recess
for five to ten minutes
thank you
foreign
comes up
president
s
I'm digital
I'm here a minute and I was like
people like that
whatever
yes
all right
foreign
again I want to thank the witnesses for
your Indulgence and no it's a long day
you're doing great we really appreciate
it now we're resume questioning and
chair recognizes Mr Garcia for five
minutes
thank you Mr chairman
uh thank you Mr chairman I want to thank
our Witnesses and I I just want to just
start off also by just um apologizing to
our Witnesses in particular Mr Roth for
just the homophobic rant and comments
that were recently just made uh from the
gentle lady from Georgia that was really
shameful and I know that we're here to
talk about serious issues and we're
having conversations about Grindr and
other issues which is not really what
this hearing is about so apologize to
our uh to our all of our Witnesses
um I want to note that I am someone that
you would probably call a Twitter super
user I use a social platform constantly
I communicate regularly it's how I get
my news it's of how I find out what's
happening in popular culture and I
admire what Jack Dorsey Evan Williams
and Christopher Stone actually tried to
build as a company
I wish you could say the same for what
the platform is today I think to me and
to many other users we've seen the site
currently degraded
we've seen Mr musk more interested in
attacking journalists and uplifting
conspiracy theories and actually running
a company
and I think we can all agree that just
overall cert the service has
substantially degraded I think just an
example is the forced for you page mask
that I personally don't like and I think
most folks don't as well
but I want to know more seriously that
Mr musk and the current team has also
done uh damage as far as trust and
safety on the platform he's gutted the
trust and safety teams that have been
described eliminated content Management
systems and the human rights team which
is as we know has has ceased to operate
I do want to just take a minute to thank
Mr Roth and particularly Miss navaroli
and your teams I know that you are
trying your best I want to thank all of
the folks that worked at Twitter because
they believed in its Mission a mission
I'm not sure holds true today completely
but it's one that I know a lot of folks
worked on and so just thank you for that
work and the stakes were made and
clearly you have actually lived up to
those mistakes and and the issues that
have existed but I especially want to
thank you for your work around the
pandemic the pandemic took over a
million American lives 1300 in my own
City back home and your decisions in
content moderation actually saved
countless lives in this country
including the work you did by moderating
or Banning members even of this
committee
who peddled in lies and were actively
causing death and harm to others and so
for that work on content moderation I
want to thank you and I want to go back
to something that Mr Roth said uh
briefly you had mentioned earlier in
this hearing that you thought that
currently there's still systemic elected
election interference and interference
happening how serious do you think the
current threat from Russia and other
countries is to current election
interference
I think we can look to the evidence from
the midterms to know that these
campaigns are ongoing and they are
serious and it's not just Russia Iran
and China though they are the big
players there's now A playbook for how
election interference works and it's
unfortunately all too cheap and all too
easy for countries to try to carry this
out thank you I think so I think it's
pretty clear what we've learned today
one thing we've learned which hasn't
been much by the way is that there's
current election interference happening
today by Russia and other actors and so
that is something that's serious that's
which the focus of this hearing should
actually be about versus all of this
kind of nonsense and and lies and
conspiracy theories
um that this committee is actually
focused on today I want to take the the
remaining balance of my time and yield
to Mr casio-cortez
I thank the gentleman from California
I'd like to raise and follow up on a
point that the opposition and the other
side of the aisle is making which is uh
trying to insinuate that there is
something scandalous or unusual about
Federal agency Outreach to social media
platforms and other organizations such
as Twitter the insinuation here is that
in the FBI and other agencies reaching
out to Twitter that there's something
nefarious about this that this was some
sort of partisan weaponization or
attempt to intimidate but we actually
have
quite a documented history of
representatives from the Trump
Administration hailing the progress that
the government had made in working with
companies like Twitter to counter
foreign influence operations and other
uh other you know areas of of concern in
early March 2020 right before the Super
Tuesday primary election several Trump
Administration officials including Mike
Pompeo Bill Barr Chad Wolfe and acting a
Director of National Intelligence
Richard Grinnell issued a statement
praising the government's cooperation
with the private sector to fend off
Foreign interference and said that
relationship was quote stronger than
it's ever been this was around this
whole time
where there's this you know grievance
around this and listen to what DHS
secretary Chad wolf had to say just
weeks before the 2020 presidential
election we now have direct lines of
communication with tech and social media
companies and election officials so that
both parties can seamlessly take action
against false information spreading
online I would argue that this
information from the Trump
Administration would say that they would
support your decision in suspending
temporarily suspending uh this
disinformation that seems to be coming
out from the New York Post so with that
I yield back to the chair gentle lady
here yields back chair recognize Mr
Merchant for five minutes thank you
thank you Mr chairman Ms Gaddy Charlie
Kirk and Dan bongino are conservative
commentators is that a fair
characteristic
just yes or no be fine
I I believe so but I'm not okay familiar
with them okay the posters behind me
show the side of Twitter that is not
available to users is that correct
it this appears to be a view of uh some
of our agent tooling but I did not have
access to that so I'm not very familiar
okay well miss Gaddy the labels identify
status that have been assigned to these
accounts is that correct
I don't know ma'am these are your
internal things you're telling me you
don't you don't receive these you don't
know what they mean
representative I did not have access to
these tools and so I don't know uh they
look they look familiar to me as an
executive you did not have access to
inside information at Twitter okay Miss
Gaddy Mr bongino's account there's a few
words under the verified and active can
you read the first two labels under
verified and active they're the yellow
ones
notification spikes search Blacklist
all right thank you Miss panji uh ma'am
Mr bongino has more than 3.5 million
Twitter followers is that correct would
you say
I'm sorry I don't know the answer to
that okay well that is correct let's
look at Mr Kirk's account Miss Gaddy can
I get you to read the yellow labels on
Mr Kirk's account can you see those I'm
sorry I can't see them from right here
all right
do you know that Mr Kirk uh
has almost 2 million followers
I I was not aware of that okay
let me ask you what is a search
Blacklist
uh I do not know specifically what that
is but I could make a guess if if that
would be helpful why don't you make a
guess for me please we do
um the when I was at Twitter there was
an ability to prevent something from
appearing in one of the tabs of search
results okay thank you
what does do not amplify mean
to the best of my recollection when I
was at Twitter it would mean that we
would not recommend or amplify that
content in the parts of Twitter where
Twitter was making recommendations thank
you ma'am in 2018 you said that Twitter
does not Shadow ban Twitter did however
engage in what is called visibility
filtering one Twitter employee described
visibility filtering as a way for us to
suppress what people see to different
levels do you agree with that
characterization
sorry can you please repeat the question
I've said Twitter okay they engaged in
what is called visibility filtering one
Twitter employee described visibility
filtering as a way for us to suppress
what people see to different levels do
you agree with that characterization
um
I agree that visibility filtering does
give an ability to okay okay Shadow
Banning ma'am has understood that the
practice is limiting the visibility of a
user's post without their knowledge how
is visibility filtering any different
representative I I believe there are
different definitions of Shadow base
okay but you said that that Twitter in
2018 does not Shadow ban was that was
that a truthful statement man was that a
lie at that time I'd specifically
defined Shadow Banning to mean something
different visibility filtering you also
said that Twitter does not Shadow ban
based on political viewpoints or how do
you allowed ideology do you stand by
those comments while I was at Twitter to
the best of my knowledge we did not do
that okay Mr Roth on January 22nd 2017
you tweeted that there were actual Nazis
living in the White House do you still
stand by that comment
yes or no sorry I regret the language I
used no I do not okay Mr Roth earlier in
your testimony you said you regretted
tweeting that quote actual Nazis are
living in the White House however Iran's
Island told us an anti-semitic tweets
one stating quote Israel is a malignant
cancerous tumor that has to be removed
and eradicated yes or no did Twitter
ever ban the Ayatollah removed this
hateful anti-semitic tweet
yes or no to the best of my knowledge
Twitter did not remove that answers no
Mr Chairman's clear conservative voices
are being silenced on social media in
the in the mainstream I appreciate this
hearing I might also suggest we look
into holding one on DirecTV news max and
oan I give the rest of my time to Mr
Jordan I think the general for yelling
and for his good questions
um so the user knows when their
account's been suspended or blocked but
they don't know when they have some of
these gold terms that were under Mr
bongino and and Mr Kirk is that right Mr
Roth
as of the time that I worked at Twitter
yes that's correct so they don't know if
they're on the don't search on the
search Blacklist they don't know if
they're on the do not amplify they don't
know that
that's correct Twitter did not disclose
that you did that to these two accounts
what I want to know was that was did you
know Mr Roth if that was at the
prompting of anyone from the government
gentleman times expired but please
answer the question
no sir I'm not aware of any requests or
orders or demands or anything from the
government requesting that visibility
filtering be applied to those accounts
or any others
which character does is Mr Frost for
five minutes
thank you Mr chairman look I mean I've
been sitting here for over two hours and
I'm I'm still not really seeing the
point of this hearing is it to solve the
problems of the American people what
people are struggling with no we we get
it my Republican colleagues wish that
the hunter Biden story would have helped
them win the 2020 election and that
didn't happen and so they're angry about
it and that's the point of this hearing
you know it was actually the foundation
of the Chairman's opening statement it's
why he brought up that that poll on the
2020 election that's what this is all
about and so I want to say my colleagues
don't worry there's still many platforms
you can spread this information on
parlor truth social that have
questionable editorial policies but
aren't here today there was no collusion
as the witnesses have said under oath
there was no pressuring from the United
States government as we've heard under
oath uh we're wasting our time here
bullying former Twitter employees so
that way it's calling the ref so that
way in the future when they want this
information to be put on the internet
social platforms will be scared to call
them out down the road it's called
calling the ref but let's talk about the
root of this hearing
my Republican colleagues would have
folks believe that Democrats are
preparing for some sort of major culture
war and there's a difference between a
culture war and how culture naturally
changes culture change some on this
committee are very resistant to culture
change I mean just yesterday we heard a
member of Kuwait immigration negatively
to changing our culture black and brown
folks come into our country the reality
is that culture changes it adopts it
welcomes more people it becomes more
understanding and it also decides to
reassess what's acceptable behavior and
rhetoric it could be different now than
it was in say the 1950s in this supposed
culture War they often conflate the
right to free speech with the
non-existent right to not be criticized
or held accountable for what you say on
the Internet or even in real life and
just because it's legal to say something
and the government won't throw you in
jail for it doesn't mean the rest of the
world and sometimes even your own family
have to associate themselves with you or
your comments Mr Roth you helped set up
content moderation policy at Twitter
what type of user tweets were more
likely to get limited did it have to do
with racism sexism homophobia violence
or was it were y'all looking for people
who were supporting Donald Trump
president Trump and limiting those
our policies were built fundamentally to
be Viewpoint neutral they were focused
on harm reduction looking to things like
the universal Declaration of Human
Rights with a focus on protecting
people's safety people's right to free
and fair elections people's rights to to
free speech and we built concern with
those rights into our policy that makes
so being a decent human being
that's certainly what we okay gotcha
Miss uh uh naravali earlier you
testified about a 2019 tweet
um that was about President Trump and I
think it's from Miss Teigen what was the
Tweet about
would you like me to give the direct
quote yeah
um please excuse my language this is a
direct quote but Chrissy Teigen referred
to Donald Trump as a ass
okay
free speech and what happened after Miss
Teagan posted her tweet what did the
White House do what did the Trump White
House do for my understanding the White
House reached out to ask that this tweet
be removed it was my team's job this
fell underneath the policy for abusive
behaviors and we evaluate it underneath
our insults policy at that time up to
three insults were allowed and so it was
our job to determine how many insults
were included within that phrase White
House reached out not an agency but the
White House reached out and request that
you remove the the tweet from my
understanding yes okay uh Mr Roth you
mentioned a serious problem of foreign
interference in our elections did you
see that mass interference work more in
support of right-wing candidates like
President Trump in 2016 or President
Biden in 2020.
thank you for the question it's an
important one and I don't think there's
a clear or easy answer to this we saw
Russian operatives playing both sides
and often playing them against each
other one of the most enraging
interactions that my team saw were
accounts operated out of the same
Russian troll Farm arguing with each
other and they were manufacturing drama
both on Democratic sides and on the
Republic so it's still a huge issue
absolutely 100 well there you have it
there's issues of big tech there are
serious issues we need to litigate
Hunter Biden's laptop is not one of them
and like many of my colleagues have said
we need to talk about these issues how
January 6 maybe could have been
prevented if Twitter had taken action
due to the hateful speech and uh and how
we have foreign interference in our
elections why are folks on this
committee so obsessed with Twitter's
editorial decision uh on Hunter Biden's
laptop would they hold the same hearings
of the editorial decisions of Fox News
and Newsmax free speech is about the
government limiting speech around the
public about the public my Governor Ron
DeSantis is doing that right now I have
a venue in my district that he's
revoking the liquor license of trying to
close because they had a drag show we
have teachers who are not able to teach
the curriculum that they want because
they disagree uh with Ron DeSantis and
his view of the world that is limiting
free speech and I'd love to see this
committee bring in some of these
Governors who are abusing their power
like Governor DeSantis in my state of
Florida to limit the free speech of
people I yield back Kidman yields back
chair now recognize Mr gosar for five
minutes thank you Mr chairman for this
important hearing and thank you for our
Witnesses for appearing as well I want
to be clear despite claims in witness
testimonies government cannot deputize
the private sector for actions that
would be otherwise be restricted by the
Constitution
in this case the censorship of lawful
speech
now I want to direct you to a tweet over
my shoulder sent by President Trump on
October 5th 2020. before Twitter banned
him from the platform
this was after president Trump had
become infected with covid and received
treatment at Walter Reed Medical Center
it says in part don't be afraid of covet
don't let it dominate your life end a
quote
see that Mr Roth
yes sir I do
listen an hour later you received an
email from James Baker at Twitter
reproduced behind me as well saying
quote why isn't this POTUS tweet a
violation of our covid-19 policy
especially the Don't Be Afraid covet
statement end of quote isn't that
correct Mr Roth
yes I believe that's the email displayed
now Mr Baker was it your understanding
that the Twitter covid-19 policy was
people should be afraid of covid
uh sir I was my recollect yes or no
could you repeat the question sir
was it your understanding that Twitter's
covid-19 policy was quote people should
be afraid of covet uh yeah
at that point in time I did not fully
understand what Twitter's covered
misinformation policy was and so I was
trying to I I'm recapturing my time so
maybe you thought that Jewish policy was
that it should dominate people's lives
is that what you thought
I'm sorry I'm having a hard time hearing
you sir so is it the the fact that
Twitter don't let it dominate people's
lives is that the problem with the tweet
I didn't at that point in time I did not
understand full I was relatively new
with Twitter and I was trying to
understand
I'm just going to ask you the other two
were asked where did you go to medical
school
a beg your pardon where'd you go to
medical school I did not go to medical
school now I'd like to have a yes or no
from each of the Witnesses on these
following questions did you or others at
Twitter communicate with government
officials by means of Disappearing
messaging systems like signal Snapchat
or wicker Mr Baker yes or no
have I ever communicated with a
government official using those yes or
no I don't recall Miss Gaddy not to the
best of my records
yes this one of it Rolly not to my
recollection no once again did you or
others at Twitter receive requests from
federal law enforcement to allow
criminal activity or content whose just
distribution is Criminal to proceed on
Twitter Mr Baker I'm sorry I don't
understand the question sir Gaddy
can you please repeat the question sir
Mr Roth
I if I understood the question correctly
was whether we received requests to
allow unlawful activity if the answer is
no okay Miss navaroli
not to my knowledge no now I'd like to
submit for the record an article by the
New York Post titled quote Twitter
refused to remove child porn because it
didn't violate policies Miss Gaddy who
was involved in this determination
I'm not familiar with this situation Mr
Roth are you familiar with it
no sir I'm not
once again I'd like a yes or no from
each of the witnesses did you apply
labels to users with an administrative
tool to downrank them Mr uh Baker
I'm sorry sir I'm having a very hard
time hearing your questions
Miss Gaddy
I'm having the same problem sir can you
please repeat this question Mr Roth
I I'm not sure I understood the question
sir
well
I'm asking you uh did anybody uh he was
an administrative tool
to downrank
users
yes sir that's a part of Twitter's
content moderation capabilities Mr Baker
well I'll rely on Mr Roth okay Miss
Gaddy yes we're very public about our
recommendation system and how they work
Mr chairman today's witness has played a
central powerful and disturbing role in
limiting not only free sweet speech but
even people's good faith inquiries and
research regarding their own health
the internet is increasingly we're in my
constituents go to engage in Civic
discourse our liberties As Americans
will be diminished if we do not
recognize our speech is increasingly
virtual and right now subject to
hostility and threatened through bands
of de-platforming
the suggestions by witnesses that all of
the removal of quote lawful but awful
speech quote was done in favor of users
as bunk
you could just as easily provide a
Content filter options to allow lawful
speech letting users decide what lawful
materials they do or don't want to
engage with but you didn't
you censored and manipulated millions of
people
do not allow people like this sitting in
front of us today to be the Arbiters of
Truth
I urge my colleagues to support my
section 230 reform stop the censorship
act which empowers users with the
editorial contract our private
businesses you always have a contract
with your customers allow them to pick
and you'll you'll make my Time gentleman
yields back chair recognizes Miss Baylon
thank you Mr chairman and um I want to
say as a former history teacher I care a
lot about the facts and the details so
let's Dive In
on December 4th then ranking member
Comer appeared on Fox News and alleged
that what Elon musk's Twitter file
showed was quote evidence that the Biden
campaign colluded with big Tech to
suppress a story that we now know is a
hundred percent true unquote
that is simply not true it is not true
based on what we knew then it is not
true based on what we know now
Mr Roth
in a declaration to the FEC in December
2020 you stated quote I did not receive
any Communications from or have had any
Communications with represented
representatives of Biden for president
the Democratic National Committee or any
of their agents regarding the New York
Post articles before Twitter implemented
the enforcement actions on October 14
2020 unquote Mr Roth do you stand by
that statement
yes absolutely
it's also worth noting that your calorie
I believe Lauren Culbertson told the FEC
the same thing
um Ms Gaddy did anyone from the Biden
campaign or the Democratic National
Committee direct Twitter to remove or
take action against the New York Post
story
no I
know Mr Baker same question to you
please
not to my knowledge no so the evidence
is clear neither the Biden campaign nor
the DNC had anything to do with
Twitter's decision making about the New
York Post story
my Republican colleagues are using what
are otherwise innocuous emails to
suggest that there was some how
collusion between Twitter and the Biden
campaign for example in one email and
this is the same one mentioned in Mr
Donald's questioning earlier in one
email selectively used by Elon Musk one
Twitter executive sends another a series
of hyperlinks on October 24 2020 with
the comment quote more to review from
the Biden team
for the record
is uh this is tweet number eight in the
first installment of the so-called
Twitter file so uh Ms Gaddy are you
familiar with this email
no I'm not okay so just to be clear this
email has nothing to do with the New
York Post story it is dated October 24th
2020 after Twitter had both made and
reversed its decisions about the New
York Post story uh Mr Baker do I have
that right
based on I think the exhibit that was
shown earlier that sounds correct yes
so Ms Gaddy can you clarify for the
record if you're able to What's
Happening Here
can you please be more specific about
with this with this email
I was I don't believe I was a recipient
of that email or reviewed it during my
time at Twitter so I'm sorry I don't
have familiarity with that that's okay
Mr Baker
to the best of my understanding these
were
tweets that the campaign had concerns
about I don't know the details of those
and they were referred to Twitter as I'm
well I'm not sure exactly why but I
can't get into other heads but they were
referred to Twitter and Twitter reviewed
them and someone again going off the
exhibit from earlier said they were
handled I don't know what that means in
terms of whether they took any action or
didn't take any action but at least they
addressed the the matter so thank you
that's what I construe from that email
appreciate that so
um from my understanding of everything
that we've heard today it's really not
uncommon for outside entities including
as we've heard uh Mr Trump's campaign to
request that Twitter remove content that
violates the company's terms of service
is that correct uh Ms Gaddy
that is very common globally thank you
so to your uh to the best of your mid
ability to answer Ms Gaddy were any
decisions approved or acted upon based
on the political party making the
request
no our teams were trained to enforce our
rules consistently and fairly without
regard to any sort of political ideology
thank you so I believe that What's
Happening Here is my Republican
colleagues know that the premise of this
whole hearing is misleading there is no
evidence that the Biden campaign had
anything to do with the hunter Biden New
York Post story and the evidence we do
have simply shows that the Biden
campaign did what the Trump campaign and
millions of Twitter users do routinely
flag content and ask Twitter to conduct
its own review to determine whether it
violates Twitter's own rules and
policies I yield back
lady yield chair recognizes Mr Palmer
for five minutes thank you thank you Mr
chairman I'd like to submit a June 22
study conducted by Princeton University
called powered by Twitter the taliban's
Takeover of Afghanistan without
objections ordered this study covers the
time frame of April to September of 2021
which is four to five month period
between President Biden's official
announcement of America's intentions to
withdraw in the chaotic end of the
American troop presence in Afghanistan
the study found that the Taliban
weaponized Twitter and that Twitter's
moderation policies failed there were
more than 126 000 accounts in the
Taliban support network and 83 percent
of these Taliban Associated accounts
were created before 2021 well before
Twitter could claim that these accounts
represented a government
these accounts shared graphic images and
videos depicting dead and decomposing
bodies and rampantly spread
disinformation about the facts on the
ground in direct violation of Twitter's
public policies Taliban tweets were
shared millions of times in the summer
of 2020. the study also found that
three-quarters of Taliban content was
produced by only 20 accounts which
suggest to me that moderation efforts
would have been relatively
straightforward by the way the U.S
government classifies the Taliban as an
Insurgent group
in case some of my colleagues don't
understand what real insurgencies are Mr
Roth why wasn't Twitter Twitter more
effective at curtailing the clear-cut
content
violations by Taliban Twitter accounts
thank you for the question sir at the
time that you referenced I wasn't
responsible for Twitter's work on
counter-terrorism do you have any idea
of why
Twitter would allow clear-cut violations
by an Insurgent group and by the way
they carried out multiple suicide
attacks during the time frame they were
sending out these tweets killing dozens
in and injuring hundreds
imagine that
it's my understanding that Twitter's
policies at the time distinguish between
some of the more violent portions of the
Taliban and some of the more political
portions of it I'm not rendering
judgment on it that stuff's still up on
Twitter and I just wonder how many
content moderators were assigned if any
to um
check on these accounts additionally it
appears that Twitter was profiting
from taliban's presence on the platform
in the lead up to the overthrow of the
Afghan government Twitter placed ads
from U.S companies including Amazon
Disney McDonald's and on the Twitter
accounts of the talapan Taliban news
organization and their spokespersons and
their senior leaders Miss Gaddy did
Talent did Twitter make money off placed
ads on Taliban Twitter accounts on
August 26 2021 when 13 U.S men and women
died in a suicide bombing
I have no knowledge of this matter you
don't have any knowledge about whether
or not these ads were up
I do not
according to Twitter the decision to ban
president Trump
was after a close review of his tweets
and the context around them specifically
how they are being received and
interpreted on and off Twitter
um on June 3rd 2018 the Iranian Auto
[Music]
thank you
foreign
so much
I just want to rewind
all the systems have to come back up
that's it
oh yeah this isn't up yet
foreign
microphone check one two microphone
check the media center testing one two
three
testing one two three
this thing one two three
audio video check
chairman test chairman test
testing one two three
testing one two three test okay how
about the video
okay thank you
bye
we are good microphone check one two
three four five six seven eight
9 10 yes
ten nine eight seven six five four three
two one twenty one fifty four Rayburn
the oversight committee one two three
four
foreign
we'll call the meeting back to order and
I apologize we've never had this happen
with the electricity went out but the
computer is is flickering but the C-SPAN
is working so we're being recorded again
as according to the rules uh where we
left off Mr Palmer had three minutes
remaining so I now yield three minutes
to Mr Palmer
let's try this again
according to Twitter the decision to ban
president Trump was after a close review
of his tweets and the context around
them specifically how they are being
received and interpreted on and off
Twitter
on June 3rd 2018 the Iranian Ayatollah
Khomeini tweeted Israel is a malignant
cancerous tumor in the West Asian region
and has to be removed and eradicated it
is possible and it will happen
this tweet remains on Twitter to this
day
Mr Roth how do you believe this tweet
from the leader of Iran calling for the
eradication of Israel was received and
interpreted on and off Twitter
I couldn't say for sure how that tweet
was interpreted
you would have a pretty good idea though
of
how many retweets and the amount of
traffic it got
only from what I can see in that
illustration
why does the Iranian leader who has
explicitly pledged to eradicate the
Jewish state of Israel get to remain on
Twitter
Mr Roth
like all of Twitter's users the
Ayatollah is subject to the same set of
rules and while I can't speak for
Twitter's decisions today I can't say
that Twitter took a number of
enforcement actions against the
ayatollah's account the same way that we
would against it that still uh
you understand how hypocritical this is
right
you banned a sitting U.S president and a
sitting member of Congress marja Taylor
green while a man who's pledged death to
America
and can openly call for the death of
millions of Jewish people and yet not be
removed from Twitter you understand how
that looks
how hypocritical that is I'm asking
though
Mr Baker Ms Gaddy Mr Roth Miss Navarro
that's amazing
but it shows hypocrisy at Twitter I'm
going to Pivot here Mr chairman
Mr Goldman made a very troubling
statement claiming that as Vice
President Joe Biden fired the Attorney
General of the Ukraine
since he had knowledge of this prior to
becoming a member of Congress
Mr Goldman should provide to the
committee documentation about this
action
we should know who authorized Vice
President Biden to take this action
against the Ukrainian Attorney General
we need to know was there an
investigation to justify the firing of
the Ukrainian attorney general and if
yes who conducted it
he needs to provide all details
involving this action including Vice
President Biden's threat to withhold a
billion dollars of U.S funding if the
Ukrainian AG was not fired
and who authorized Vice President Biden
to make that threat I would request that
the committee look into this and I yield
back
gentlemen yields back chair now
recognizes Miss Lee for five minutes
thank you Mr chair this has been um an
incredibly electric uh hearing it'd be
funny if it weren't real life I
understand my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle want to be victims so
very badly but miss navaroli uh if I
understand you correctly public
criticism and Accu and allegations of
anti-conservative bias are actually
making Twitter and other social media
companies less willing to enforce their
own policies against political
conservatives correct
yes that was my understanding based on
Research that was done on Twitter
meaning the same Republicans insisting
on making themselves a victim is working
could you repeat the question
uh the same Republicans uh folks on this
panel who are insisting on making
themselves victims in this conversation
about Twitter censorship and uh other
accusations they've made is this working
because of the conservative bias and the
implications of it
or the allegations of conservative bias
I
in other words are the allegations of
conservative bias making it harder for
those in Twitter or those who are
working there to enforce these uh
policies against folks who incite hate
speech or or make thank you for
rephrasing that question and thank you
for asking it yes these allegations are
very much having an impact on the
leadership within every social media
company as they hope to not receive
allegations of being biased or in any
way being politically leaning
thank you I'm not the only lawyer in the
room so you all know that while the
Constitution does provide us the right
to free speech there are of course
limitations
um as Miss navaroli uh pointed out we
cannot yell fire in a crowded theater
compromising freedom of speech may seem
dangerous until we weigh that compromise
against the men and women massacred in
Buffalo for instance or the many other
places where radicalized violent
extremists found their motivation to
kill on social media this isn't about
oppression it's about Public Safety this
isn't about censorship it's about
protecting our democracy from
misinformation Miss navaroli uh it was
your job to decide whether someone was
yelling fire in the theater could you
describe the coded incitement to
violence policy Twitter did not
implement
yes thank you for that question the
coded in statement to violence policy
was an incredibly nuanced policy that
was created in order to fill the gaps
that were existing in the already uh
existing policies around violence the
policies around violence were explicit
so these were calls that said I'm going
to I want to I plan to I wish to those
sorts of incitements would have come
down things like stand back stand by
things like I am locked and loaded and
ready for a civil war were dog whistles
that were not covered underneath the
policy thank you could have saved lives
if it were implemented on January 5th
2021 or possibly in November of 2020.
I can't speculate as to what might have
happened
um and I do wish we would have acted
thank you
um Miss Gaddy the very same words that
were plastered across Twitter were
shouted at the January 6th Insurrection
what threats do Americans face now that
Elon Musk has removed all guard rails
and welcomed back Donald Trump to the
platform
thank you for the question I'm actually
not really familiar with what the
content moderation policies of Twitter
are today okay thank you
social media platforms like Twitter must
own up to their responsibility in
spreading violence and Chaos I'd argue
so too the members of this panel and
institution
um thank you I yield the balance of my
time to Mr Askin
um thank you very much Mr Roth I want to
go back to the whole question of your
finding hundreds of thousands of fake
accounts set up by Vladimir Putin and
the Russian internet research agency I
think they called it which was the
propaganda arm in 2016 and I I suppose
to this day
um some have been suggesting on the
other side of the aisle that it's
illegitimate for the FBI or any
representative of the federal government
presumably even Donald Trump who did a
lot of this to contact private media
entities in order to apprise them of
anything whether it might be the
penetration of organized crime or child
pornography or foreign malign influence
and I'm just wondering if you would give
us a sense of how much work is actually
being done and I was going to check with
you and Mr Baker about that how much
work does Twitter and other social media
entities do that relies on the FBI and
other national security agencies
thank you for the question there is a
considerable amount of work to address
foreign disinformation at Twitter and
also at other companies and this work
was Reliant in part on intelligence
shared with companies by law enforcement
and by the intelligence Community I
would regard that work as essential at
Twitter we had dozens of people working
just on these questions of election
interference those teams no longer exist
under Mr musk and Mr Baker if you could
thank you sir just generally I mean it's
a matter of public record that the FBI
has worked with the public including
private entities for decades indeed
they've had for some number of years now
an office of I think it's called office
of public sector engagement this is part
of what they do in order to fulfill
their responsibilities and to to do
their jobs to protect the country
thank you you're back chair recognize Mr
Armstrong for five minutes thank you Mr
Roth I'm going to continue down that
line of questioning so will you
testified you were just talking about
working very hard to keep foreign troll
Farms from using Twitter and to get to
engage in malign foreign interference
this sounds like a fairly robust
undertaking you said between
2016-2020 you had different
um teams stood up to do this concept
vigilance
yes sir that was the phrase that we used
yeah and these types of
are constantly evolving they're trying
to find new ways to penetrate your
system so you have to be engaging with
it on uh and being willing to adapt on a
constant basis
yes sir that's right and now we forward
to 2020 and earlier you had testified
that you were having regular
interactions with National Intelligence
Homeland Security and the FBI
yes I did and primarily to deal with
foreign interference
primarily but I would say all this
information but you had said earlier
like your contact with uh agent Chang
was primarily with foreign interference
yes that's right and these were emails
were there meetings
yes Twitter met quarterly with the FBI
foreign interference task force and we
had those meetings running for a number
of years to share information about
malign foreign interference Agents from
Homeland Security or intelligence or
just primarily the FBI our primary
contacts were with the FBI and in those
quarterly meetings they were I believe
exclusively with FBI personnel and you
had multiple former FBI agents on the
payroll I mean Mr Baker you have 10
years experience with FBI doj I was well
with doj it's two decades roughly but I
was just for the record I was never an
FBI agent okay yeah
and Twitter has such a close
relationship with at least one FBI agent
that that agent could start emails with
hey Twitter folks and could actually
advise your company about violations of
your own terms of service
Mr Roth I think it's safe to say that
you had a consistent dialogue with the
FBI for the weeks and months prior to
the New York Post is that fair
I had ongoing conversations with the FBI
for years I would say about election
Security in response to Mr Fry earlier
you said you would not categorize the
FBI Communications as pressure
no I would not however Twitter's
director of policy wrote to you in 2020
that Twitter has seen a sustained effort
by the intelligence Community to push
Twitter and that Twitter should keep a
solid front against these efforts he
specifically cited Elvis chain and FBI
agent in San Francisco now on August 11
2020 agent Chan sent you three documents
in prep for a meeting and said the
documents pertain to apt-28 a hacking
unit connected with Russian military
intelligence agent Chan arranged for
having security clearance for Mr Baker
and facilitated encrypted networks for
the FBI to share information with
Twitter and employees and on October
14th 2020 you stated that this feels a
lot like somewhat of a subtle leak
operation earlier today you testified
that you were following National experts
experts on Twitter National Security
Experts on Twitter as a reason to take
down the New York Post story on Hunter
Biden's laptop
yes sir I did so
after 2016 you set up all these teams to
deal with Russian interference foreign
interference you're having regular
meetings with the FBI you have connect
connections with all of these different
government agencies and you didn't reach
out to them once
is that question in reference to the day
of the New York Post article
that's right we generally did not reach
out to the FBI to consult on content
moderation decisions especially were
they related to domestic activity it's
not that we wouldn't have liked that
information we certainly would have it's
that I don't believe it would have been
appropriate for us to consult with the
FBI in December of 2020 you did a
declaration of the Federal Election
Commission that the elect intelligence
Community expected a leak in a hack
operation involving Hunter Biden
recently Mark Zuckerberg confirmed that
the FBI warned Metta that there was a
high effort of Russian propaganda
including language specific enough to
fit the hutter life laptop Biden's
security story
you're talking to these people for weeks
and months years prior to this leaking
they have specifically told you in
October that there's going to be a leak
potentially involved involving Hunter
Biden's laptop they legitimately and
literally prophesized what happened
and you didn't contact any of them
no sir I did not did they reach out to
you
on and around that day it's the best of
my recollection no they did not after
the story was taken down and you guys
did it and you personally disagreed with
it Miss Gaddy you said you did did you
contact them and says hey is this what
you were talking about
if that question was directed to me no I
I did not Daddy did you talk to anybody
from the FBI
that's the best in my recollection so I
guess my question is what is the point
of this program
you have constant communication they're
set up for foreign interference they've
legitimately warned you about this very
specific thing and then all of a sudden
everybody just walks away
like this is what you plan for this is
what you prepared for this is the
information they told you exactly what
was going to happen and then you want I
I don't care if the members of Congress
you legitimately want the American
people to believe we just completely cut
off contact with all of the people who
we were supposed to defend against I
don't think it I don't think it's passed
as a smell test and neither do the
American people I yield back
chair recognize Mr sorry for five
minutes
I'm honored to be a new member of
Congress where our purpose is to listen
to the people and represent their voices
and lift up our communities after
talking to thousands of people across
Texas asking them what do you want me to
work on for you as a new member of
Congress not a single person told me
they were concerned about a New York
Post story on Twitter about Hunter Biden
is that really what we're dedicating
this committee's time to is that really
what we're going to dedicate the next
two years to our constituents of all
political backgrounds are worried
they're getting pushed out of their
neighborhoods by spiking housing costs
they see their Public Schools suffering
because we aren't supporting our
teachers in my state our rural hospitals
are closing we have more uninsured
people than anywhere in the country we
have the highest number of food insecure
kids and Reproductive Rights have been
Stripped Away we're talking about none
of that
it seems to me that we're having these
hearings so that people can beat their
chest about Hunter Biden maybe do some
fundraising get some headlines and
ironically post those on Twitter
if that's what House Republicans want to
spend their time on then that's their
prerogative
but to me it's a damn shame we're here
for a bigger purpose than that under the
leadership of the legendary chairman
Jack Brooks from Texas this committee
implemented the Great Society through
the creation of Head Start and the
creation of Medicare they investigated
Watergate they built the U.S space
program
anything is possible if we all come
together to work on what our
constituents demand if we make sure that
we say to our constituents that your
voice matters here we could be ensuring
that the historic investments in
infrastructure and domestic
manufacturing create good union jobs
where we need them the most we could
take on free speech and civil liberties
issues at home and across the world we
could be investigating and taking a look
at these real threats of domestic
terrorism and civil unrest we could be
making sure that our constituents lives
are better but instead we're focusing
today on Twitter the American people
deserve better
I yield back my time to Mr Raskin
thank you very much Mr gustar
um
let's go back to this point about the
the Russian disinformation campaign just
to refresh everybody's recollection Mr
Roth
um you've you learned
um was it before 2016 or after 2016 that
Vladimir Putin had uh commanded an
entire campaign to try to invade the
American election with social media
messages on Twitter Facebook and so on
was that before the election you learned
her after
while there was some public discussion
of it before the election most of the
confirmed information was only
Declassified after election day
Okay so
um there were there was this uh powerful
massive campaign Unleashed by a malign
foreign actor interested in undermining
American democracy
um with a specific electoral objective
right did you find that
was he just trying to create chaos or
did he want to put the thumb on the
scale with his intervention for either
Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump
a bit of both honestly I think there was
a significant amount of the troll
activity on social media in particular
that wasn't tilted one way or the other
it played both sides and it played them
off of each other and I think that's bad
for America and it's it's bad for
democracy I think the hack and Lee
campaign was a bit more skewed because
that focused very specifically on the
DNC and on John podesta okay and so the
hack and League campaign against the DNC
and Hillary Clinton was one meant to
damage Hillary Clinton's campaign is
that right
that's what most research concludes was
the objective yeah all right so some
people are suggesting that if the U.S
government finds out about a malign
foreign influence disinformation or
propaganda propaganda campaign in our
elections at any level the government
shouldn't say anything
to
the public or the news media about it
what do you think about that proposition
I believe that would be a profound
failure I think there's a collective
responsibility across the private sector
and the public sector to address our
shared threats and Russian interference
in American democracy is one of those
shared threats
okay
um Miss Gaddy do you agree with that
yes I do okay
um and just back to you is never really
for a moment
um did you follow the the
um attempt to overthrow the official
election result in Brazil
I was not working on Twitter at the time
but I paid attention to the news okay
and were you struck by any of the
resemblances between what happened in
Brazil and what happened here on January
6th yes it was the exact same Playbook
that was played on January 6 in which a
ruling party claims that an election was
stolen and that misinformation continued
to spread and lead to political violence
thank you you're back Mr chairman chair
recognize Mr Fallon for five minutes
thanks chairman if there was ever you
know if there's ever a time where our
government becomes the sole Arbiter of
Truth
then we've lost the United States
Twitter's become the virtual Town Square
it now has the power to transform public
opinion like no other medium in history
with their algorithms shaping and
molding the public mind to their own
ends Mr Roth to the best of your
knowledge what percentage of your
colleagues when you worked at Twitter
donated Democratic causes or candidates
in 2020.
I don't know sir uh we have it here it
was 98.4 percent of Twitter employees
gave to democratic candidates or causes
in the 2020 election cycle
and believe it or not those numbers
actually went up in the 2022 cycle to
99.7 of 200 employees donating to
democratic candidates and causes so
clearly Twitter as a whole had a
political bias Mr Roth do you personally
think that you have a political bias and
did you have one when you worked at
Twitter a personal political bias
no sir you didn't you know that's that's
remarkable because it's pretty obvious
you did have strong biases compared when
you compared
ironically using Twitter
people that worked in the Trump White
House to Nazis they were good folks that
you simply disagreed with politically
and our representative Republic and you
compared them to the most evil people on
the planet that murdered 60 million
people or at least were responsible for
those deaths you think that was a little
bit hyperbolic
yes I do as I said I agree I agree with
you it was
and so your political opinions spill
over into censorship work at Twitter I
think your biases had consequences which
you intentionally expressed through your
propaganda and censorship role at
Twitter Additionally you may have
collaborated with U.S intelligence
Community regarding stories that y'all
didn't want the public to see so namely
what we refer to as a hunter Biden
laptop story that ran in the New York
Post so I'll ask you Mr Roth did you
receive 10 confidential documents from
Special Agent the FBI Elvis Chan the
night before the hunter Biden laptop
story ran
yes you did
see because it's interesting with the
immediacy with which you all acted to
censor the New York Post 100 by laptop
story seems to be very indicative of
foreknowledge and the story was seismic
and it was rushed to be suppressed
knowing full well it was not Russian
disinformation as some here said
it was truth that was denied the
American voter
and the media Research Center pulled
Democratic voters in 2020 swing States
and found that 17 percent would have
changed their vote if they had known the
contents and evidence of the New York
Post story
president Trump lost
key States Georgia Pennsylvania
Arizona and Wisconsin by collectively
just over a hundred thousand votes and
if this is accurate with this poll 3.2
million votes could have swung
and he only needed a teeny fraction of
those 3.2 million
that decision almost certainly changed
the result of the 2020 presidential
election
did you have any idea the contents of
the New York Post story
Mr Roth
only what I read in the New York Post
that day and then it was
killed by Twitter and the mainstream
media followed so I found this
interesting in 2019 candidate for
President Joe Biden said and I quote I
have never spoken to my son about his
overseas business dealings
and yet the evidence in that story and
on that laptop revealed that two of
Hunter's Mexican business associates
Miguel magnotti and Manel Miguel Velasco
visited the White House in February 2014
and he was later photographed Joe Biden
was photographed with him and the White
House also in October 2015 Hunter
arranged a video conference with his dad
Joe Biden sitting vice president and
Carlos Slim the Mexican billionaire and
then unbelievably in 2015 Hunter
introduced his father then vice
president to vadam pazarski an executive
of the now infamous
versema Holdings company where Hunter
would later magically make millions as a
board member despite having no
experience whatsoever in the energy
sector
Joe Biden lied he created the firewall
and then he was exposed because of this
story and other information he lied to
the American people and Mr Roth you
withheld information on the eve of a
presidential election and you protected
that lie and I hope for the sake of the
country that men like you to do those
things men and women never get to put in
such power and positions of power again
and Mr chairman I'd also like to see if
uh
I'd like to ask you in a minute
unanimous consent to enter into the
record a tweet from ranking member
Raskin the Tweet reads it's horrifying
to see images of border patrol agents
whipping Haitian refugees at the Texas
border not exactly the feeling I get
without objection it's ordered thank you
yep oh well I just think that's
misinformation or at least it was a
mistake and Twitter left it up for a
week or not a week a year a full year
gentleman yields
Mr Baker uh in top of page two in your
written testimony you said I did not
destroy or improperly suppress whose
time is this any documents at Twitter
regarding information important to the
public dialogue the way you worded that
it sounds like there is something how
much extra time is he going to get
during this hearing did you finish he
had time let him repeat the question and
then his time will be expired and and
before he started
clearly it's up to the Chairman's why
don't you let them answer
Mr Baker and on top of page two have you
written testimony you said I did not
destroy or improperly suppress any
documents at Twitter regarding
information important to the public
dialogue the the use of the term
improperly suppressed suggests there was
some kind of suppression done in a
proper way I just want to know what that
was and is this referring to
your work at Twitter when the Twitter
files were first released just a few
months ago
foreign
ly sir I think I'm constrained from
answering that question any more fully
than in my testimony because of
attorney-client privilege so I'm
unfortunately I'm just going to have to
leave it at that
I thought that's been wave
not the privilege not the privilege the
the non-disclosure agreement my
understanding has been weighed but not
the attorney called privilege
gentlemen Sam's expired I do not have
anything in writing to indicate that the
Twitter has waived privilege with
respect to that matter
chair recognizes Miss Crockett for thank
you Mr
how accepted that President Joe Biden
won the election even though now we are
blaming
um president Trump's loss on Twitter
can we finally let it go this is why
Democrats are reinforcing that in this
hearing we should be talking about the
threats to our democracy that's the real
threat not an old article that seemingly
couldn't reach the viewership it sought
through its own platform to disparage
and attempt to skew the election in
favor of a twice impeached former
president who lost a secure and fair
election as a Texan who served in the
house and fled the state as Mega
Republicans there pushed an agenda just
as Insidious as the foreign interference
we experienced in the 2016 election we
should be talking about what they don't
want to talk about as they continue to
cut you off as you try to talk about
things such as interfering with our
democracy and how there has been an
inciting of political violence against
individuals as well as our democracy as
a whole we are supposed to live in the
land of the free and when some people
are afraid of losing power they engage
in conspiracy theories and distractions
such as the Joe Biden a candidate at the
time not government actor at the time
colluded with social media to win so let
me say thank you for showing up
for this political theater unfortunately
the American people deserve better of
its leaders they deserve a robust
conversation around the very real and
very present threats to our democracy
the greatest democracy in this world so
with that being said let me be clear
I believe that there has been
testimony previously by Mrs Miss
navaroli I hope I'm not
just killing your name right now
at some point you stated if January 6th
and anything like it
that language if we would have seen that
happen in any other country with any
other leader Twitter would have acted
completely differently it is my
understanding from this statement and
correct me if I'm wrong that you almost
felt as if Trump was treated differently
in fact that you may have been of the
impression that he was treated with more
difference than other world leaders is
that true
foreign
yes as I testified earlier today Twitter
bent and broke its own rules in order to
protect dangerous speech like the tweets
that were directed towards
representative ocasia Cortez and when we
talk about bending it's my understanding
from another deposition
that there were actual alarms that would
go off if someone would access Trump's
Twitter account other than I believe the
CEO
foreign it was my understanding that
alarms would ring within Twitter if the
account was accessed outside of a select
group of individuals who had access to
that account I am aware of this being an
ongoing practice for
other individual Twitter accounts
at my time at Twitter the former
president Donald Trump's account was the
only account that I did not have access
to okay so we know that there weren't
individual actors running around Twitter
sending off alarms every other day is
that correct
not to my knowledge no okay now as we
talk about January 6 because I think
that's the only thing we should be
talking about what I want to talk about
is what and anyone can answer this
question
um did you see a correlation between a
rise in homegrown domestic white
supremacy online as it correlates to
leading up to January 6th
I can answer that so some of the things
that we were seeing specifically on
Twitter related to white supremacy fan
fiction I mentioned earlier in my
testimony that we saw things like people
wishing that the day of the Rope would
occur that comes from things like the
Turner Diaries which are again white
supremacy fan fiction
you would also agree with me that it was
clear that white extremists were
seemingly triggered and activated to
take action against our very democracy
here at home by some of the activity
that was going on
um on Twitter correct
yes I believe so
now just to make sure that we can
summarize what we allegedly are here to
talk about uh you all would agree with
me when I say that there was no physical
damage or destruction to structures limb
or life as it relates to this article
yet we do know that there was actual
harm physical harm as well as
destruction that occurred as a result of
January 6 correct
yes people died on January 6th thank you
with that I'll yield the remainder of my
time to Chairman or ranking leader
Raskin
um
thank you
I mean Mr chairman I I would just use
the second to ask unanimous consent to
submit for the record an extraordinary
article just published called Twitter
kept entire database of Republican
requests to censor posts uh published on
February 8th that was just published by
Rolling Stone so for everybody's uh
reading enjoyment if people think it was
biased against conservatives this would
lead us to believe it was definitely
biased against liberals and progressives
didn't have you pegged for a rolling
stone reader but without objection to
order chair recognizes uh Mr groffman
first of all just a comment
um when we talk about the pledge of
allegiance that one of the lines in
there is to the Republic for which we
stand uh George I'm sorry Ben Franklin
when he was asked about our constitution
he said we give you a republic if you
can keep it just two lines that maybe
some people around here haven't heard
now uh this is uh
well kind of a little story for uh the
three of you on the left here
um in January of 2021 the Christian
magazine called The Daily Citizen
tweeted about president-elect Joe
Biden's announcement that Dr Rachel
Levine was his nominee for secret
assistant Secretary of Health they
commented that Dr Levine is a
transgender woman
this was banned from Twitter are you
familiar with this story
any reason why it would have been banned
I think they'll say understanding that
you know again okay
um
there are local talk radio hosts in my
area well-known media hosts out of the
Madison Milwaukee Green Bay media Market
widely listened to uh they were Shadow
banned on Twitter
um there's some very prominent doctors
in the area that didn't agree perhaps
with everything CDC or NIH said that
were
um
band uh band on Twitter I'd like you to
comment on that because you know
normally I think when people make a
major health decision they always like
to get two separate opinions
and some of these doctors who are wildly
well respected
um probably two of the most prominent
doctors in Wisconsin
I thought outside the mainstream and I
think we're thinking outside the
mainstream
um
they were taken off your platform could
you comment on why you would take
somebody off a platform or why a
distinguished doctor would be considered
um something that the public as a whole
couldn't hear their there's version of
events
oh you're not aware that ever anybody
any doctors who commented outside the
the mainstream uh version of what was
going on with covid going on with the
vaccine going on with treatments that
there there were people who disagreed
with the NIH recommendations and you
took them off of Twitter you're not
familiar with that
none of you are familiar with that
foreign
I'll I'll yield some time to Jim Jordan
then I thank the gentleman for for
yielding uh Mr Baker uh Mr Roth earlier
said he thought it was a waste of time
for the FBI to be sending you accounts
that they thought violated Twitter's
terms of services and Twitter's policy I
was just curious did you ever tell
Twitter Executives or FBI acquaintances
that the FBI had no legitimate interest
in enforcement of Twitter's policy
uh sir I again I'm going to give you the
same answer I gave before I think the
advice that I was giving internally to
folks would be covered by the attorney
client privilege and as let me let me
stop Mr Baker although you're testified
today by subpoena you nonetheless have
raised the attorney client privileged to
avoid answering this committee's
question Congress does not recognize the
common law attorney-client privilege
with that I'm going to allow Mr Jordan
to ask the question again
well there's there's been two questions
I've asked that he's refused to answer
so let me if I could Mr chairman I'll
ask both again I'll go back to the one
last couple minutes ago
top of page two of your testimony you
said
quote I did not destroy or improperly
suppress any documents at Twitter
regarding information important to the
public dialogue
I would like to know what what you're
referring to that you in your mind
properly suppressed and when that took
place specifically if it took place
during the time that the Twitter files
were first being released just a few
months ago
against her
as I think we've notified the committee
and we've had these conversations with
Twitter as well to try to resolve this
issue prior to coming up here today I
don't have anything in writing that
clears me in my ethical responsibilities
to my former client with respect to
answering questions that I think fall
squarely within the attorney client
privilege so unfortunately I don't think
I can go beyond what I've said there
already sir unfortunately Mr Becker
you're assertion that the attorney-clap
privilege
it's overruled as to this particular
question and answer so
will you
please answer the question by Mr Jordan
point of order Mr chairman
State your point uh well I as I
understand it because we just went
through this in the January 6 committee
where uh multiple Witnesses asserted
attorney-client privilege including
people who weren't covered by it at all
um ultimately that's for a court to
decide so I don't think there's I don't
think there's anything we can do within
the committee at this point unless I'm
missing something
we'll
give you one more chance to answer the
question if if you don't answer it then
we'll have to deal with it after the
Committee hearing
Mr Baker could you answer I I apologize
but I I believe I have ethical
responsibilities to my former client and
I don't think I can go beyond what I've
said already unfortunately
how many
Mr Becker you did suppress documents
then that in your language was important
to the public dialogue I'm going to give
you an extra minute Mr Goldman oh thank
you very much
thank you
I'm sorry sir could you repeat the
question again going on what you your
written testimony so you did suppress
documents at Twitter regarding
information that was important to the
public dialogue
that's a yes or no
I'm going to answer the question with
the following sentence which is right
after that at all times I sought to help
my client understand and comply with
this legal obligations okay gentlemen's
times expired I recognize Mr Goldman for
six minutes thank you Mr chairman
I understand that uh Mr Palmer was
asking some questions about some of my
assertions about the removal of the
Ukrainian prosecutor General uh first
let's be clear I did not say that Vice
President Biden fired Mr shokin it was
official U.S and European policy to
encourage Ukraine to fire him which they
did
but he is right about one thing but what
I say is not evidence and neither is
what any of our Republican colleagues
say on the other side of the aisle they
may not like what these Witnesses say
but the testimony of the witnesses is
the evidence not baseless statements
without firsthand knowledge but I urge
Mr Palmer if he wants to understand what
actually happened to read the 300 Page
report that we published on the first
impeachment investigation there's a lot
in there about Mr shoken
luckily though he doesn't even have to
do that you can just read the New York
Post story itself because in that story
shoken admitted that he never opened an
investigation into barisma he claims to
have had quote specific plans to do so
yeah sure
for two years Rudy Giuliani had been
peddling Victor shokun's bogus story
including with agents of Russian
intelligence
and chairman Comer if you question that
I urge you to look up Andre der Koch
so who was the sole source of the hard
drive to the New York Post
Rudy Giuliani
and for these reasons many journalists
were highly skeptical
one reporter at the New York Post itself
refused to put his name on the story
Fox news's Brett Baier said quote the
whole thing is sketchy unquote
and both Giuliani and the post refused
to give the laptop to other journalists
to verify and analyze it in fact
Giuliani told the New York Times that he
hoped that it would be published before
it could be verified
so what is the so-called authentication
for this laptop
well chairman Comer said in his opening
statement that it's a subpoena to the
computer repair shop owner which
happened over about a year before the
New York Post story
but that is not the same hard drive that
Rudy Giuliani received months later from
that repair shop owner and passed along
to the New York Post after he was in
possession of it for several months
now Mr Baker based on your understanding
of Russian malign influence campaigns
does Russian intelligence have the
capacity to manipulate a hard drive yes
so it is possible that some of the
materials on a hard drive could be
authentic and some could be altered
manipulated or even added to the hard
drive
is that right I believe so yes
Mr Roth you have testified today that
Twitter was keenly aware of the hacking
efforts by Russia in connection with the
2016 election is that right
yes sir and those efforts I believe you
said and correct me if I'm wrong by
Russian intelligence to interfere uh in
the our electoral process continued up
and through and including the 2020
election is that right
Russian efforts certainly continued
through the 2020 election and even
through the midterms I couldn't say
specifically if it was Military
Intelligence as was the case in 2016 but
certainly the Russian government was
involved
so let's run down what Twitter knew
about this hard drive and this story
when it was published
first the sole source of the hard drive
was Rudy Giuliani who had been working
closely with Russian intelligence agents
throughout 2020. second Russian
intelligence interfered in the 2016
election and was actively trying to do
it again and third numerous journalists
including at the New York Post and Fox
News raised suspicions about the hard
drive and they refused to allow an
independent analysis and verification of
it
now Mr Baker based on your experience in
law enforcement
wouldn't this give anyone concerned
about Russian interference in our
elections serious pause
well I think as reflected in the public
record uh
at the time I thought there were great
concerns on on that side of the equation
because in part with respect to all the
the things that had happened since 2016
with respect to the hack and leak or
hack and dump issues
um there were there were facts that
indicated that the computer might have
been abandoned and so on but which made
it a very difficult case which is why
we're sitting here today talking about
it right and there was a 24-hour delay
in in continuing to spread the
publication of it isn't that right
uh yes okay you know that exactly what
51 former intelligence officials many
from Republican administrations even the
Trump Administration said in that letter
that is being distorted by Mr Jordan and
others at this hearing let me quote one
paragraph of what they say we want to
emphasize that we do not know if the
emails provided to the New York Post by
President Trump's personal attorney Rudy
Giuliani are genuine or not and that we
do not have evidence of Russian
involvement just that our experience
makes us deeply suspicious that the
Russian government played a significant
role in this case
and unless Twitter like special counsel
Mueller concluded about the Trump
campaign in 2016 wanted to welcome
Russian interference in an election all
of you sitting here today were entirely
correct to be highly concerned about the
legitimacy of this story I yield back
chair recognize Mr Higgins for five
thank you Mr chairman I'm going to be
yielding some time to my colleague Mr
Jordan here momentarily but
um for the record Mr Baker Miss Gotti Mr
Roth Mr navroli are you here under the
advice of council and do you have
Council present
yes sir that was a yes yes sir
yes sir yes I do
yes I was subpoena that's good I'm glad
you all have council president Mr
chairman for the uh
for submission for the record I'd like
consent to submit to Twitter files
dated uh December the 8th post about a
New York Post regarding the suppression
of conservative commentators
like that submitted without objection to
ordered Mr chairman thank you I'd like
to also submit for the record a timeline
of uh events with cited sources
outlining strong evidence of the Biden
family organized criminal actions was
certainly indicate that we've crossed
the threshold of reasonable suspicion I
like this timeline submitted for the
record excuse me Mr chairman just where
is that from that timeline
timeline in my hand boss up I'll get it
to you shortly
um
bottom line is that the FBI had the bond
crime family laptop for a year they knew
it was leaking they knew it would hurt
the Baden campaign
so the FBI used its relationship with
Twitter
to suppress criminal evidence being
revealed
about Joe Biden one month before the
2020 elections
you ladies and gentlemen interfered with
the United States of America 2020
presidential election knowingly and
willingly that's the bad news is going
to get worse because this is the
investigation part later comes the
arrest part
your attorneys are familiar with that
Mr chairman I'd like to spend five hours
with these ladies and gentlemen doing
depositions surely yet to come but for
right now I yield the balance of my time
to my colleague Mr Jordan I thank you
gentlemen for yielding I think he made
the right Point
um
and I would just respond to my uh to our
colleague from New York uh you know who
knew the laptop was real
was the FBI they had it for or or maybe
they had it for a year and just said you
know what we're going to put on the
Shelf we're not going to look at it but
if anyone knew it was real it's them
that's why I asked the question again
back to my colleague from New York when
he was talking about that's why I asked
the question earlier I said
did anyone at the FBI or Mr Baker no Mr
Baker talk to any of those 51 former
Intel officials who sent the letter
saying this has all the classic earmarks
of a Russian misinformation operation
maybe they could have checked with the
FBI because the FBI had the actual
laptop in their possession
um so I appreciate the gentleman from
Louisiana I think it's a great point
that he made Mr Roth I want to come back
to you and something we were at a few
hours ago and we're talking about this
visibility filtering which in my mind I
understand to be something short of of
suspending and blocking the account
which the user then knows has happened
because there's a notification in a
public way like you did to miss green
when you suspended her account but
there's other things this this search
Blacklist is do not amplify that are
some kind of filtering that account that
the user doesn't know about
and I asked the question earlier was
there any bit of this visibility
filtering that was hard-coded by Twitter
employees into the account of of
specific users and you said you
hesitated for a while and you said well
you wouldn't use the term hard-coded but
it seemed to me like something like that
went on can you elaborate
thank you for the question
Twitter's visibility filtering system as
has been reported in the Twitter files
is based on applying labels to user
accounts and so in that sense if the
application of a label is what you meant
by hard-coded yes Twitter systems did
apply those designations to those
accounts but it was seldom the case that
Twitter staff would manually
individually go in and apply those
labels directly or any government
officials
um
were those labels and therefore that
filtering done to any government
officials any elected officials uh that
where the user wouldn't know about
I don't know sir
I didn't have access to my Twitter
computer to any Twitter systems to
prepare me to answer that question so I
I'm just talking your time there and
your your experience there and you know
if that happened
it would not surprise me to know that
visibility filtering labels had been
applied to the accounts of elected
officials so visibility filter uh labels
applied to the accounts but the user
doesn't know
yes it was not Twitter's practice to
notify users but you think that happened
to elected officials and government
officials
again I couldn't say for sure
I appreciate it are you back
chair recognize from afume for five
minutes
well Mr chairman it's been a long
morning and afternoon
and um
at this point in time there's an adage
that says everything that can be said
has been said except that not everyone
has said it so if you will indulge me
for a few minutes I'd just like to
reflect on some observations uh having
sat here and gone through this and I'm
hoping and praying that this is not a
problem in search of a solution because
we're dedicating an awful amount of time
here and I don't want a few things to
escape us but having said that I want to
First associate myself with the remarks
of Mr Raskin the ranking chair his
opening remarks succinctly I think
encapsulated and put in place with many
of us on this side of the aisle are
feeling and I uh also as a point of
personal privilege would like to just
Express how many of us share the concern
of the gentlewoman from South Carolina
who indicated to her ongoing medical
condition which she said she might have
to live with the rest of her life life
um I I just that just got me for a
moment and I wanted to make sure that
that's on the record now I would
disassociate myself with her remarks
when she said as did the gentlewoman
from Georgia God bless Elon Musk now for
me as God blessed my country God bless
my family God bless my friends Mr musk
can take care of himself
um
I would also caution if I might
all of us but particularly the gentleman
from South Carolina who said earlier
that there is proof that Hunter Biden
committed multiple felonies
uh the gentleman said that without
offering anything for the record and I
know we're all covered by uh
Congressional immunity in terms of when
we're on the floor and when we're in
these committees but sometimes we
probably don't want to feed into hot
rhetoric I mean we campaign in that kind
of poetry but we are elected to govern
in prose and when you do that there's a
different sense of responsibility that
goes with all of us Mr Roth
um I listened to you and I feel bad that
you were attacked uh and you know you
had to sell your home you had to move
your family and I just want to remind
you and remind myself that there are
members of this committee who are also
always under attack because of their
race or because of their surname or
because of their political affiliation
that kind of Reckless incitement I think
is best dealt with when you have content
moderation otherwise we gen not the
rhetoric the people who can't control
themselves oftentimes don't and then we
see violence occurring against whether
it's members of Congress through threats
or persons like yourself in the private
sector
um
miss navarolia you in your testimony
stated that on the morning of January
the 6th that you sent lawyers a message
warning them that your team was
hamstrung by leadership and two days
later when it looked like that might
happen again you asked management
whether or not they wanted more blood on
their hands what was their response and
what did they do
foreign
yes thank you for that question on the
morning of January 6 I did send that
message to a Twitter lawyer specifically
because I believe that Twitter was going
to be facing liability for what was
going to occur that day I do not
remember uh their exact response but I
do remember they're coming in a response
of confirming that the information had
been received
would you repeat the second question
that you asked I wanted to know what was
their response what did they do
nothing
okay you went on to say that in January
of 2020 after uh the United States
assassinated an Iranian General that the
president at that time Mr Trump decided
to justify it on Twitter and management
literally instructed you to make sure
that we were not about to start World
War III on that platform is that correct
yes
and what happened after that
it was up to me and my team to create
what we called enforcement guidance so a
document that explained how we would
apply our policy specifically related to
content moderation in that specific
instance I believe the document was
relating to foreign policy discourse so
my point here about content moderation
on the front end prevents some of the
crazy things we see on the back end Mr
chairman uh I have from the
Anti-Defamation League their latest
report on murder and extremism in the
United States oftentimes fueled by the
lack of content moderation that I would
ask unanimous consent be entered into
the record and I also have uh the
national threat assessment done by the
Secret Service of our country this was
just released and it talks about how 25
percent of all of these acts are being
conducted by people who are not
moderated but who in fact end up
breaking the law and threatening the
lives of people and I would ask
unanimous consent that also be without
objection so ordered thank you sir chair
recognizes Mr sessions for five minutes
Mr chairman thank you very much so I
will say it God bless Elon Musk
because I think I feel that way it was
Elon Musk that revealed
data that uncovered a disturbing cabal
let's be clear we're here today
because Twitter got caught
not because people want to admit
mistakes got made
or perhaps because they got bought
if not for the Twitter files released by
Mr Elon Musk this activity we're
discussing today would still be going on
it's no secret that the political bias
of Twitter
and their previous leadership bled into
politics
and merged that with practices of the
company
and that is a big concern
but a bigger concern is where our
government
on a political basis by law enforcement
becomes engaged in things that a
timeline would show
we're not truthful
that's the concern
the fact that Twitter was working hand
in glove with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and the intelligence
community
to suppress free speech
and things that were not true is
disturbing
that is why we are here today
so Mr Roth I would
engage you if I could for a minute by
the way I want to compliment all four of
you
you've been here all day
this is hard to do you've kept your cool
to the best of your ability you're
expressing honesty
I admire that
Mr Roth
can you please tell me about the
meetings with the FBI how many where'd
they take place How do they
accomplish what they wanted
thank you for the question yes sir
Twitter met with the FBI I would
estimate several dozen times over the
course of multiple years these meetings
happened in person in the Twitter office
in the offices of other technology
companies and at times they happened
virtually we issued press releases about
these meetings they were not happening
in secret they were not anything that
the public sector or the private sector
strove to to hide from anybody but in
these meetings we used it as an
opportunity to discuss the shared
threats of foreign malign interference
to discuss the preparations that the
public and private sector were
implementing and to use that as an
opportunity to make sure that we were
having open channels of communication
about those malign interference threats
Miss Roth did you at any time believe
that the bureau might not be honest
about the things they knew and the
information that they shared and passed
to you
I would say I have a personal healthy
skepticism about any type of law
enforcement but no it was never my
experience that representatives of the
FBI were anything but forthright in
those discussions do you believe that
they today in looking back misled you
I don't believe so no so you believe
that the things which they told you
and looking back are truthful even today
to the best of my recollection yes
so the chance for FBI numerous times
dozens of times to meet with you
did you put out information of the
substance when you said you provided
the public with information did you
discuss what those meetings were about
I believe the public statements were
fairly high level and talked about
preparations for upcoming elections in
the United States
um any internal records or meeting
minutes would be on my Twitter computer
which I don't have access to
and does that reside to the best of your
knowledge currently at Twitter
yes sir I've returned all Twitter
property to the company when I chose
this and that would be a requirement
generally speaking yes
so you believe that the bureau met with
you they did not mislead you
that you were as forthright as you could
be to the public and that you were
playing the role that you felt like was
responsible is that your testimony today
yes sir it is
thank you very much Mr chairman I yield
back
gentleman yields back and
sleep
yeah
oh oh yeah yes yes yes I'm sorry
uh thank you Mr chairman
you know I'm beginning to
I'm getting to feel like a little bad
for the majority like I I just feel
guilty because you guys have come today
to try to prove that the Biden
Administration and coordination with
Twitter is impeaching impuning free and
the problem is is that Donald Trump
he he is just this thing that hangs
around your neck because at every turn
he undermines whatever credibility you
want to have
on this subject I mean Donald Trump and
his administration it's been proven
reached out to Twitter to take down
tweets that got under his skin the tough
guy Donald Trump right he got called the
b word let's reach out to Twitter let's
get the Tweet taken down
you guys have no credibility you have
none
your own guy taking Free Speech off of
Twitter
you know I also don't understand this
bipolar thing that you're doing with Joe
Biden so every day you guys tweet out
Joe Biden is boring he's sleepy every
day you say it on TV now
you want to tell the American people Joe
Biden is an international super
Mastermind along with his son Hunter
I mean it's just bananas
you know the Trump family is getting
billions of dollars of loans from
foreign governments by using their White
House relationships any questions any
questions on that no I didn't think so
you you want to know if the Trump family
made any money selling PPE during the
pandemic out of the West Wing any
questions about that no I I didn't think
so but let's move on to Hunter Biden's
laptop your leaker I always love this by
the way you guys are against leakers
unless they're leaking things you like
your leaker Matt Isaac and I love you
know have you seen this guy I mean this
is he's like a Radio Shack dot matrix
guy who copied files off a private
Citizen's hard drive
okay that's your entire theory is based
off of but I
I want to use his words this is his own
words your guy your leaker the guy who
gave you the information
there have been several attempts by
several individuals to modify and insert
fake data
I do know there has been multiple
attempts over the past year and a half
to insert questionable material into the
laptop to pass off information or
disinformation as coming to the lap
coming from the laptop he continued this
is a major concern of mine because I
fought tooth and nail to protect the
Integrity of the drive and to jeopardize
that is going to mean everything I
sacrificed will be for nothing
your guy your leaker questioning the
Integrity of the information you guys
are peddling by the way why isn't he
here
bring him here let's ask him questions
and why haven't we seen the hard drive
you guys aren't shy why won't you show
it to the American people
let's talk about Twitter
let's talk about God bless Elon Musk
see these
God bless the guy
who was allowing Nazis and anti-semitism
to perpetrate Twitter it's been a 66
increase of anti-Semitism on Twitter
since Elon Musk set it free Mr chairman
I agree with you it's not fair to say
all conservatives are Nazis that's
preposterous that's not true
but your lord and savior Donald Trump is
having tea and dinner with them at
Mar-A-Lago
Nick Fuentes right here who is a picture
that has tweeted at me all the time
saying Jews are a virus in response to
my tweets
Donald Trump's having dinner with him
Nazis at Mira Lago
and so no not all Republicans are Nazis
but I got I got to tell you Nazis seem
really comfortable with Donald Trump
so I have questions about that Mr
chairman
why is that why do I get these tweets
let's talk about Kanye West right the
chairman of the Judiciary Committee for
three months praising Kanye West we love
Kanye right a Nazi
clearly now it took months for that
tweet to come down how come
I mean these are things I'd love to know
is it because maybe they're your voters
I mean they certainly aren't voting them
for me
I yield back
chair recognize Mr Langworthy for five
minutes
the Twitter files reveal the
unrestricted power and censorship
regularly exercised by the three
Witnesses in front of us today Mr Roth
Miss Gaddy and Mr Baker
now miss navaroli in your opening you
stated that too few people and companies
have too much power
well I think you're right
the witness is here today they had too
much power at Twitter and they tried to
play the role of God as they interfered
with the natural right of the people to
a free and fair election
Twitter knowingly suspended the New York
posts account
one of the most reliable conservative
voices in the country in fear that an
honest story would swing the most
divisive election in American history
into the hands of their enemy
former president Donald Trump
now Mr Roth you were part of the secret
of sip s censorship team at Twitter
correct
no sir I'm not sure what that refers to
Mr Roth the Twitter files revealed that
you rarely adhered to company policy in
making your censorship decisions one
reporter from the Twitter files called
your group a quote high-speed Supreme
Court of moderation issuing content
rulings on the Fly often in minutes
based on guesses gut calls and even
Google searches in cases even involving
the president do you recall making
decisions in this manner
no I do not
can you explain the process for these
quick decisions
thank you for the question I think the
core of content moderation whether it's
fast or slow begins with a written set
of rules and policies and that was the
primary responsibility of my group at
Twitter it wasn't about making a one-off
decision in the moment it was about
having a written and codified set of
well laws for the platform that we
followed in each instance in the vast
majority of cases content moderation
decisions were not made by me or by
another executive or even by a member of
my direct team they were made by
hundreds of content moderators enforcing
those rules again and again and again
the situations in which decisions would
be escalated to senior Executives were
few and far between and largely related
to the really hard gray area calls
so Mr Roth as part of the quote Supreme
Court of moderation at Twitter did you
have the final call over political
censorship decisions
no sir I did not then who had the final
call on these decisions
there was a team of people some of whom
represented on this panel today others
not who were involved in trying to make
these decisions but a portrayal that any
one person held sort of supreme or
ultimate authority over these decisions
would misrepresent what the process was
so your team labeled high-profile
accounts as vits standing for very
important tweeters what was the
threshold for being labeled as a vit
continue
that's an excellent question for which
there is not a consistent answer I don't
think Twitter was particularly well put
together on that definition so was the
New York Post labeled a vit
I believe the New York Post account is
verified and verification conferred some
of that status of being a vit but again
the definitions here are a little
squishy
now is it true that the Twitter comms
director Trenton Kennedy said in regard
to the post story
I'm struggling to understand the policy
basis for marking this unsafe
yes it's my understanding that Mr
Kennedy said that
was the New York Post story regarding
Hunter Biden's laptop marked unsafe
regardless of uncertainty
it is true that Twitter marked links to
that story as unsafe in a number of our
systems which resulted in restricting
people's ability to tweet it that was
the decision that Twitter reversed 24
hours later
well it's clear from this panel that too
few people had too much power
the New York Post Twitter account was
suspended in an attempt by democrats in
big Tech to go ahead and play God and
interfere in a natural free and fair
election in the free flow of information
in this country the censorship is
unbounded the New York Post has been a
reliable source for decades including
their coverage of the nursing home
scandals in New York during the pandemic
now that you and many others are gone
from the company there is hope that this
platform will once again be a place
where voices can be heard and respected
and can return to be a town hall for all
points of view no matter if you agree
with them or not sir and that our
elections will never again be controlled
by big Tech I yield back with Jim and
yielded Jordan
uh George Miss Jordan okay thank you uh
Mr Roth and you're in Missouri V Biden
your declaration to the FEC you said I
also learned in these meetings with the
government that a hack and leak
operation would involved Hunter Biden Mr
Chan has has testified in his deposition
in that same case in my estimation we
never discussed Hunter Biden
specifically with Twitter who told you
about Hunter Biden in these meetings
my recollection is that a representative
of another tech company may have
mentioned it but those meetings were
several years ago I I truly don't recall
okay chair recognize Mr Stansberry for
five minutes
afternoon and many of the members of the
public who are with us I see a lot of
tired faces out there and I want to
thank you all for spending your day with
us but I also want to start out by
asking
what are we doing here in this committee
today why are we here
why is this committee devoting a
day-long hearing
to a political conspiracy theory that
was planted in the media by Rudy
Giuliani to support Donald Trump's
re-election campaign
of all the topics we could be focused on
in this committee to support the
American people how people are going to
put food on their table at the end of
the day how we're going to address the
economy how we're going to address
critical issues that are on people's
minds every day we are devoting an
entire day
to this conspiracy theory involving
Twitter
now the mission of this committee is to
rule out waste Fraud and Abuse and to
conduct oversight on behalf of the
American people and if you need any
evidence of waste Fraud and Abuse how
about the use of this committee's
precious time space and resources to
commit to this hearing
you know I don't even understand why
we're here right now but I do want to
clarify some key facts about what we've
heard today so I'm going to get into it
for just a few moments Miss Gowdy thank
you for being here today Mr Baker you
have already stated publicly that
Twitter's handling of this issue was a
mistake is that correct yes or no it's
fine
yes that's correct
I don't think I have stated that
publicly yet but that is what the uh the
CEO of the company said yes and at the
time only weeks before one of the most
consequential elections of our lifetime
in 2020 Twitter made a decision based on
policies put into place to protect the
public from political disinformation and
from foreign interference is that
correct Mr Roth
yes in fact
the failure of Twitter and other social
media companies to moderate political
disinformation not only fueled its use
in election tampering in 2018 but
allowed for election denialism to run
rampant in 2020 and that is exactly what
led to the Insurrection here on January
6 in the capital
so miss nevaroli I want to ask you thank
you for sitting here all day answering
these questions
do you believe that Twitter has put into
place policies that would adequately
Protect free speech but also protect the
American people from another violent
Insurrection and the kind of hate speech
that we are seeing run rampant right now
on the platform
thank you for that question I cannot
speak to Twitter's current policies
because I have not worked there in quite
some time but I can say that my job at
Twitter was to balance free expression
and safety and one of the things that I
constantly pushed for for was for us to
include more analysis within that simple
Balancing Act and instead of asking just
free expression versus safety to say
free expression for whom and safety for
whom so whose free expression are we
protecting at the expense of whose
safety and whose safety are we willing
to allow to go to the wind so that
people can speak freely exactly right
because Twitter refused to sanction
Donald Trump's account long before it
was actually banned
when violent rhetoric and other rhetoric
was already being used on the platform
and in fact since the latest acquisition
of Twitter by Elon Musk the company's
trust and Safety Council is represented
here today has been dissolved in the
accounts of individuals like Donald
Trump who incited violence in the
capital have been restored and we are
seeing anti-Semitism hate speech
dangerous rhetoric violence being put on
Twitter every single day
election tampering disinformation
violence the attack on our capital
Mr chairman that is what we should be
holding oversight hearings on in this
committee I have traveled to every
corner of my district and New Mexicans
are depending on us to defend our
democracy and to ensure that we are
holding not only those who are
committing waste Fraud and Abuse
accountable but ourselves
so let's not waste the precious
taxpayers time and dollars holding
hearings about Four Seasons Landscaping
style conspiracy theories and actually
get to work for the American people
with the gentlelady yield to a question
Mr chairman I yield back
chair recognizes Miss bobert for five
minutes
thank you Mr chairman uh Mr Matt taibi a
respected reporter who published much of
the Twitter files said quote Twitter's
contact with FBI was constant and
pervasive as if it were a subsidiary now
I want to better understand why he would
suggest that Mr Roth while at Twitter
how many meetings did you have with the
FBI
I couldn't say for sure but more than
10. that's the reason
I couldn't say for sure more than 50.
that seems a bit High
many meetings with the FBI well we know
uh how many FBI agents worked at Twitter
while you were there
I don't believe any active FBI former
FBI agents how many worked there while
you were there
I'm aware of perhaps two well we know of
at least nine because they started the
bu group chat bu for Bureau now Mr Roth
did the FBI ever ask you to share
information like users communication
data without going through proper legal
channels
no they did not and I would have refused
if they had
um that's correct I see that you denied
agent Chan's request for access to
Twitter's data feed what's sick isn't
that you would deny it uh it's that the
FBI would even ask you for the private
data of American citizens without going
through legal channels of the law now I
want to remind you Mr Roth that you are
under oath did the FBI ever ask you to
do anything that was illegal or
questionably legal
I'm not a lawyer but certainly not to
the best of my recollection or knowledge
now from the hearing that I I've been a
part of today it's almost impossible to
tell where the FBI ends and where
Twitter begins we have Mr Baker here a
former FBI agent and there seems to be a
revolving door between the FBI and
Twitter itself even Mr Baker said that
there was no collusion with the federal
government and Twitter but Mr Baker
that's you you are the collusion between
the federal government and the FBI and
now with it this is such a problem
because
we're seeing censorship all over Mr Roth
Miss Gaddy did either of you approve the
shadow Banning of my account at Lauren
bobert
okay
yes or no no I did not
to the best of my recollection well let
me refresh your memory because on March
12 2021 and Mr Roth I know you looked at
it because fasch's Twitter 1.0 had a
public interest exceptions policy which
means for members of Congress to be
Shadow banned it had to go before you Mr
Roth so I'll ask again did you Shadow
ban my account yes or no
again not to the best of my recollection
so the answer is Mr oth yes you did I
found out last night from Twitter staff
that you suppressed my account for this
tweet
it's a freaking joke about Hillary
Clinton being angry that she couldn't
rig her election it's a joke but in
response being the Sinister overlords
that you all are you placed a 90-day
account filter so I could not be found
and now we see here that Twitter staff
said the visibility filter on my account
excluded me from top searches prevented
notifications for non-followers and much
more this is considered an aggressive
visibility filter you silenced members
of Congress from communicating with
their constituents you could you
silenced me from communicating with the
American people over a freaking joke now
who the hell do you think that you are
election interference yeah I would say
that that was taking place because of
you for sitting here the hunter Biden
laptop story was suppressed a sitting
member of Congress was suppressed a
sitting president was banned from 20 you
know I bet that Putin is sitting in the
Kremlin wishing he had as much election
in her intervention interference as you
for here today we've heard about threats
to democracy well what about shutting
down a duly elected member of Congress
this is fundamental to our nation's
governance and you all attacked that
very Foundation
230 protections
well those are for Publishers not for
editors and it's clear you are not
acting as Publishers you were acting as
editors and Mr chairman I think it's far
past time that we remove 230 protections
for for big Tech platforms who are
abusing this protection
and let me just say I'm not angry for
myself I'm not angry because I was
silenced I can reach out to Elon and to
his staff and I can see what's happened
and I can sit here today and hold you
all in account I am angry for the
millions of Americans who were silenced
because of your decisions because of
your actions because of your collusion
with the federal government they can't
reach out to Elon they can't sit here
today and hold you into account we don't
know where the FBI ends and Twitter
begins
you four and saving free speech and even
Twitter Mr chairman I yield
the lady yields uh went over 24 seconds
I'll give Miss Porter 24 extra seconds
well I appreciate your Indulgence
chairman Comer but I won't I won't need
it
so today's Hearing gaveled in
at 10 A.M
for nearly six hours power outage we
have been going back and forth about
this supposed suppression of a single
news story
from a single outlet
for a single day
this hearing has been in its length
nearly one quarter of the amount of time
that Twitter users could not share
the link
we are spending almost as much time
screaming about this as we are this was
ever a problem
look criminal activity is always a
concern
but if if there is Criminal wrongdoing
on Hunter Biden's laptop that is a
matter for the FBI and our law
enforcement agencies today's hearing is
merely an exercise in misinformation and
disinformation
a free for all healthscape
that's what now CEO Elon Musk said
Twitter would become if the platform
became a place where anyone could say
anything with no consequences
it is unbelievable to me that I am
quoting Elon Musk but that is how
ridiculous this hearing has become
the oversight committee like Twitter or
any other social media company for that
matter cannot become
a free for all hellscape where anything
goes
with that Mr chairman I yield back
the lady yields back thank you Mr
chairman Miss bobert I ask unanimous
consent to submit two documents into the
record both both from Twitter without
objection to order thank you chair
recognizes Miss Luna for five minutes
thank you chairman
Mr Roth
um Have you communicated with government
officials ever on a platform called jira
yes or no
real quick answer we're on the clock
after the best of my recollection not
your recollection great have if you did
in the event communicate who would have
had access to this platform
that's the nature of my confusion okay
did you ever speak to government
officials on jira regarding taking down
social media posts again not to the best
of my recollection can you explain to me
why the federal government would ever
have interest in communicating through
jira mind you a private Cloud Server
with social media companies without
oversight to censor American voices I
want to let you know that this is a
violation of the First Amendment and the
federal government is colluding with
social media companies to censor
Americans Mr chairman I ask for
unanimous consent to submit these
Graphics into record and Mr Roth I'm
going to refresh your memory for you
this flow
thank you chair this flowchart shows the
following federal agencies social media
companies Twitter leftist non-profits
and organizations communicating
regarding their version of
misinformation using jira a private
Cloud Server on this chart I want to
annotate that the Department of Homeland
Security which has the following
Branch's cyber security and
infrastructure Security Agency also
known as sisa countering foreign
intelligence task force now known as the
misinfo info and Mal information MDM
this was again used against the American
people the election Partnership
institute or election Integrity
partnership EIP which includes the
following Stanford internet Observatory
University of Washington Center for
informed public Graphica and Atlantic
council's digital forensic research lab
and potentially according to what we
found on the final report by EIP the DNC
the center for Internet Security CIS a
non-profit funded by DHS the National
Association of secretaries of State also
known as nass and the National
Association of state election directors
nased and in this case because there are
other social media companies involved
Twitter what do all these groups though
have in common and I'm going to again
refresh your memory they were all
communicating on a private Cloud Server
known as jira now the screenshot behind
a screenshot behind me which is an
example of one of thousands shows on
November 3rd 22 20 that you Mr Roth a
Twitter employee were exchanging
Communications on jira a private Cloud
Server with sisa
n-a-s-s-n-a-s-e-n-a-s-e-d and Alex
Thomas who now works at Stanford and is
a former security of
um security officer at Facebook to
remove a posting do you now remember
communicating on a private Cloud Server
to remove a posting
yes or no
I wouldn't agree with the characters I
don't care if you agree do you this is
you this is your stuff yes or no did you
communicate with a private entity
the government agency on a private Cloud
Server yes or no
the question was if I yes or no yeah I'm
on time yes or no ma'am I don't believe
I can give you a yes or no well I'm
going to tell you right now that you did
and we have proof of it this ladies and
gentlemen is joint action between the
federal government and a private company
to censor and violate the First
Amendment this is also known and I'm so
glad that there's many attorneys on this
panel joints State actors it's highly
illegal you are all engaged in this
action and I want you to know that you
will be all held accountable
Miss Gaddy are you still on seis cyber
security advisory Council
yes or no yes I am okay for those who
have said that this is a pointless
hearing and I just want to let you guys
all know we found that Twitter was
indeed communicating with the federal
government to censor Americans I'd like
to remind you that this was all in place
before January 6th so to say that these
mechanisms weren't in place and to make
it about January 6. I want to let you
know that you guys were actually in
control of all the content and clearly
we have proof of that now if you don't
think that this is important to your
constituents and the American people
from those saying that this was a
pointle hearing I suggest you find other
jobs chairman I yield my time
foreign
point of order
yeah I just want to call to the
attention of the chair and members yes
we're getting awfully close to witness
intimidation and I would ask the uh
charity intervene
I'm sorry I didn't hear what you said Mr
buffumi I said I would caution all
members that we were getting very
closely close to witness intimidation uh
right on the verge of it and I would ask
that the chair and the ranking member uh
agree how we will proceed from this
point on
it was the threats that were just made
it's okay Cortez yeah thank you Mr chair
and follow-up to that I was
I am curious about the the commit ment
rule or the committee's
position
accusing Witnesses of a crime are
discussing arrest discussing you know
the these making these Illusions and
threats I I want to clarify for the
record what is the committee's policy
around threatening a witness
we have the we have the member decorum
and around the rules of decorum can can
we can we agree that threatening a
witness comes close to broaching General
decorum it does Broach General decorum
of of the committee
with all due respect Mr Casio of course
we don't agree that there were any
witness threatening
in in threatening when we discuss
when we discuss a potential arrest of a
witness
and and alluding to a witness uh or a
suggestion of witness committing a crime
without evidence and without
without documents being supported to the
record can you be more specific when we
talk about arresting a witness or when
we talk about a witness incinating that
witness is lying without documentation
I fear that this constitutes threatening
a witness and that comes and that will
broach the rules of decorum of this
committee
and I'd like to ask that we request
Witnesses be treated with respect thank
you
appreciate that and I will remind
everyone of the members decorum and
witness to quorum to treat everyone with
with respect I thank you Miss Casio
Cortez do you have anything to add no
thank you I agree with you Mr chairman
um I have a separate point of order I
just wanted to raise which it seems as
if several members now seem to have
access to some information from Twitter
that people on our side don't have and I
would just hope that anybody who's
communicated directly with Twitter or
received any information relating the
witnesses who has that who plans to use
it distribute it to the committee in
advance that's okay
I think that most of the I think the
evidence is coming from I think a lot of
the a lot of the the quotes and emails
are on the laptop
well I think that at least one member
indicator and the Twitter files Twitter
files that Elon Musk well one member had
indicated that she had received
information directly from okay
thank you Mr chair and to our Witnesses
thank you for uh for being with us today
I know it has been a long one
uh just so that we're clear and to Stage
my next line of questioning in December
2019 we've established that the FBI
subpoenaed Hunter Biden's laptop from a
computer store owner and then we've
established that nearly a year later in
October 2020 the hunter Biden lap top
story is published by the New York Post
within hours Twitter and other social
media companies began limiting the
distribution of the hunter Biden story
my question is uh for Mr Roth
in September 2020 a few weeks before the
New York Post published the first story
on the hunter Biden trading on his name
you participated in an exercise hosted
by the Aspen Institute with other media
Outlets social media companies and
National Security reporters isn't that
correct
yes I did
and Mr Roth that event was hosted
specifically by the Aspen digital hack
and dump working group is that correct
foreign
I know it was hosted by the Aspen
Institute I couldn't say who
specifically within that Mr Roth this
event was before the release of the
hunter Biden laptop story correct
that's my recollection yes and during
that event a scenario that was discussed
was a hypothetical October 2020 release
of Records related to Hunter Biden is
that correct
again that's my recollection of the
event yes
and Mr Roth did you participate in the
design of this hypothetical scenario
not to the best of my recollection no
are you telling me that you never had
any conversation with anyone regarding
the contents of this scenario
no sorry I didn't say that I met with
the Aspen Institute on a number of
occasions I wouldn't say that I was
involved in the development of the
scenario in a specific way no so you're
you're you're telling me that I will
find no witnesses that would testify
they had conversation with you regarding
the development of this scenario
I genuinely could not say what other
Witnesses might or might not say
why was Hunter Biden chosen as the
subject of this scenario just weeks
before the October 14 2020 publication
of the first Hunter Biden story
I don't know
but you participated in the conversation
I was invited to and joined an event
hosted by the Aspen Institute yes and so
surely there had to be some level of
conversation as to why Hunter Biden was
the topic in that scenario
not that I can specifically recall
Mr Roth representatives from Facebook
attended this event also correct
to the best of my recollection yes
and Mr Roth the FBI had Hunter Biden's
laptop nearly a year before it was
uncovered by the New York Post and
before the Aspen Institute event
did members of the U.S intelligence
Community participate in the September
2020 Hunter Biden
hack and dump exercise
I don't recall
Mr Roth I'd like to point you to a sworn
statement that you previously made
I believe this was to the uh
the FEC
you've given a sworn declaration stating
that federal law enforcement agencies
communicated that they expected hack and
leak operations by state actors might
occur in the period shortly before the
2020 presidential election likely in
October is this your statement
yes it was
Mr Roth you said since 2008 and 18 you
had been meeting with the office of the
Director of National Intelligence the
Department of Homeland Security the FBI
and Industry peers regarding election
security correct
yes sir
and Mr Roth you were told there would
likely be a hack and leak operation
occurring in October is that correct
I believe the FBI has objected to the
word likely or expected but we certainly
discussed that possibility with them all
right
thank you Mr chair I yield back
gentlemen yields back chair recognizes
Miss Bush for five minutes
St Louis and I are here today to talk
about the Christ posed by the power of
private companies that operate social
media platforms Republicans are holding
this hearing because of their ridiculous
politically motivated obsession with
Hunter Biden this is a distraction from
their inability again to govern and it
hides the shared concerns raised by
Republicans and Democrats alike about
the vast power impunity and lack of
accountability of social media platforms
there are so many examples of these
companies responding inadequately or
inappropriately in crisis that we have
come to understand misconduct as the
norm
for social media Giants and not in
aberration
social media played a key role in
fanning the Flames of violence on
January 6 on that attack on our U.S
Capitol the impact has spread all over
the world last fall after Reuters
reported that disinformation about
Chile's proposed constitutional
referendum was traveling three times
faster on social media platforms than
facts several members of this committee
wrote to meta Twitter and Tick Tock
demanding further action to reduce the
dissemination reduce the lies reduce the
hate they did nothing
Miss Gaddy you were at Twitter on
January 6 and asked repeatedly for a
retrospective meeting to discuss what
happened in the lead-up to that day
management told you quote it wasn't a
priority for the company
why was it not a priority for Twitter to
learn lessons from
January 6.
I don't believe you're referring to me
apologies I'm the chief legal officer
I did not I did not make that statement
okay Miss navaroli
would you mind repeating the question
sure
on January 6th
on January 6th you were at Twitter and
asked repeatedly for a retrospective
meeting to discuss what happened in the
lead-up to that day management told you
quote it wasn't a priority for that
company
why was it not a priority for Twitter to
learn the lessons from January 6th
I can't speak to leadership's
motivations or why it would not have
been a PRI been a priority for them what
I can say is myself and individual
members of my team repeatedly ask that
we do a retrospective to understand not
just what happened on January 6th but
leading into January 8th in the
permanent suspension of the president
um and what can you say is Twitter's top
priority
I can't speak to Twitter's top priority
at this moment I can say that again my
team's responsibility was to balance
free expression and safety and to ensure
the safety and lack of harm for people
on the ground
thank you
Twitter's top priority seems to be to
maximize its profit
the people on this panel were among the
top experts moderating content for
equity and safety at Twitter and your
concerns were consistently steamrolled
by Executives pursuing profit we know
this situation must change but I would
argue that the structure of these
corporations ensures this malpractice
will continue these social media
companies have shown themselves unfit to
maintain a digital Public Square with
almost Universal usage and vast power
the purpose is not to facilitate healthy
fact-based discourse it is to
aggressively pursue profit for their
billionaire Executives and shareholders
even when they make a good decision
about removing a post or a user it is
only to
make a profit
this existential problem will not be
solved by asking these for-profit
corporations to tweak their approach
around the edges
we need to re-envision what the internet
can be digital platforms including
social media are here to stay but we
need to make sure that they operate for
the public good and not the private
interests we need to invest in better
alternatives to Big Tech and we need to
establish public ownership and control
to ensure these platforms serve everyone
fairly thank you and I yield back chair
recognize Mr Perry for five minutes
thank the chairman I thank the witnesses
it's been a long day
Mr Roth
going back to your statement Mr Edwards
talked about
um I want to just kind of revisit that a
little bit where
it was communicated to you at least per
your statement by the FBI that was
expected hack and dump or hack and leak
operations
and that they would occur
before the election and and that these
at the bottom here the meetings that
were rumored in this rumored that the
hack and leak operation would would
involve Hunter Biden
subsequent to that well first of all who
told you that was that did you get that
can you tell can you tell us where you
got that information if you know
the subject of the possible hack and
leak was raised by a number of
representatives of the FBI it was one of
them Mr Chan
yes Mr okay so are you familiar with the
fact that in his testimony in in
November of 2022 that he says we did not
see any similar competing intrusions to
what happened in 2016 and of course
you had been talking to intelligence
agencies and law enforcement agencies
for some time and they were referring to
the 2016 hack and dump operation
are you familiar that he said that
subsequent to you saying this
that they didn't have any evidence
I was not aware of okay that's fair
that's fair no did they ever give you
any evidence of the hack and dump
operation that happened in 2016 and what
I think I'm referring to is the
allegation that the Clinton campaign uh
the DNC server was hacked and that
information was spread about about
through Wikileaks or other information
channels did they ever give you any
evidence of that occurrence during these
discussions
that information was made public by the
intelligence community in the Mueller
report and by the Senate intelligence
yeah evidence did they ever give you
evidence because I still as far as we
know crowdstrike looked at the servers
did the FBI ever look at the servers
from the DNC to your knowledge I think
that would be a question better directed
fair enough but the point is you you
never saw any evidence right you're just
taking it on and I'm not blaming you
because a lot of people want to believe
the FBI I've always wanted to believe
the FBI the question is did they ever
give you any evidence to believe that
because they're making the case they're
making the case that there's a hack and
leak operation coming and it's going to
be about Hunter Biden right before the
election did they ever give you any
evidence
it didn't come up there okay yeah I I
didn't figure it did and then you all
set up a secret channel to between
Twitter and the FBI who did that from
the FBI was that Roth or you're Roth was
that Elvis I'm sorry
Mr Chen was a part of that work yes yes
he was part of that and so you set up
and you actually set up a war room as
well right
I believe the FBI operated okay fair
enough I didn't and you participated in
that there's no sir I did you did not
did Twitter participate in it I believe
Twitter may have okay represented okay
fair enough and then and then you did
this table talk exercise about Hunter
Biden
and about a leak about Hunter Biden that
would come out right before the election
essentially 10 days and that happened in
September right before the election and
and you participated in that right
yes I did who facilitated that exercise
I know the Aspen Institute but who
facilitated the exercise proper was was
anybody from a government agency
facilitating any part of that were they
involved in the discussions during the
exercise
no I don't believe so no so they were
just spectators
I wasn't aware that they were spectators
either but I don't recall exactly who
was there I know you don't recall who
was there who then who facilitated do
you recall that
my recollection is that the event was
facilitated by Garrett Graf who was a
member of the Aspen Institute and Aspen
digital
all right
do you find it odd now
after the fact and I know you've already
testified here that you don't see to Mr
sessions that you didn't see that you
were misled or potentially duped it sure
seems highly coincidental
would you agree it at least seems highly
coincidental knowing that the FBI had
the laptop that the FBI set up the war
room and the channel and told you per
your statement
that this was going to happen do you
find it highly coincidental that it
actually happened and it was Hunter
Biden at all
I want to be clear that my statement to
the FEC does not suggest that the FBI
told me it would involve Hunter Biden
that's a popular reading of that
declaration but it was not my intent
I think there is a coincidence there and
I I really can't speak as to how that
came about yeah it's really coincidental
one last question did the CIA or the
other other governmental agency ever ask
Twitter to look at something that
violated Twitter's policy
I don't recall specific Outreach by the
CIA specifically other government
agencies what it was called in the
Twitter files yes Twitter regularly
received reports from government
requesting review under our room so the
one the other government agency that one
did they ever request information
regarding violations of Twitter's
policies
the CIA and gentleman times expired but
please answer the question thank the
chair again I don't recall specific
contact from the CIA no
okay chair recognize Mr Burleson for
five minutes
thank you Mr chairman
um I've sat here listening and I'm glad
to be blessed and rank I get to listen
to all the testimony and what's become
clear to me there are a few things
um
and that is that um
the censorship efforts of the big Tech
the intelligence community
and the media we're all working in
concert to affect the 2020 election I
find it unbelievably ironic and I hope
others do too see the irony that
people who are so concerned and
hell-bent
and worried about the interference of
outside groups on the 2016 elect
election became willing participants to
interfere in the following presidential
election
these three groups work together and
it's clear worked hand in hand to hide
the truth for the from the American
people
the fact that the FBI had the hunter
Biden laptop
heck it was in their possession for a
year before the election is appalling
but that didn't stop them from spreading
a lie
and a bogus claim
about it being Russian interference
again
and you know
it's it's clear to me why they reached
out to you
because they knew you would buy the LIE
they knew that an organization with 99
of its employees donating to democratic
candidates and efforts would absolutely
not look at any information with the
jaundic side you would take it
as the gospel truth
and so they knew that because it was
clear from your tweets before that you
have an opinion about the president you
have an opinion about the Republican
party and so when uh all of that leading
up to the to the October 14 2020 when
the New York Post published its story
um
every it everything was already in place
so Mr Roth my question to you is
when 51 intelligence officials told you
told us that the hunter Biden laptop was
Russian disinformation the Democrats the
mainstream media the president all
repeated this lie now that you know what
you know
years later do you still believe that
the hunter Biden laptop is not real
or do you believe it's real sorry I
never held that belief
do you believe that the the story is
Russian disinformation
no sir I didn't then and I don't now
okay
um I have a question Mr Baker you
started your role as a Twitter's Deputy
General Council in 20 in June of 2020
correct yes sir
who hired you for that role
specifically hiring me my boss was a
person named Sean edgette who was the
general counsel Sean edgen Edge it Edge
and that's who you interviewed with I
interviewed with numerous people but
Sean was my boss
um anyone anyone that comes to mind
outside of Sean uh Miss Gotti I
interviewed with uh other you're saying
other people that I interviewed with at
Twitter but ultimately the hiring agent
was Sean Edge
I'm not sure exactly who made the
decision to be frank with you but Sean
was my boss okay my next question is
when you were fired from Twitter in
December of 2022 after the release of
the first installment of the Twitter
files did you destroy any internal
Communications related to the that first
batch on the Twitter files as I said in
my testimony I didn't destroy any
documents period
what reason were you fired
you'll have to ask Mr musk about that
that was not that was not giving you're
not given any information he made a
public statement about it uh in a tweet
but um I think he would have to ask him
for the precise reason okay thank you
back to Mr Roth
um is it true that Twitter whitelisted
accounts for the Department of Defense
to spread propaganda about its efforts
in the Middle East
did they give you a list
of accounts that were fake accounts and
asked you to whitelist those accounts
that request was made of Twitter to be
clear when I found out about that
activity I was appalled by it I undid
the action and my team exposed activity
originating from the Department of
defense's campaign publicly we've shared
that data with the world and research
about it has been published was that was
was that only an efforts against foreign
entities were there any efforts against
United citizens of the United States
I think the nature of public social
media activity means that anybody might
have seen it but my understanding was
the activity was predominantly focused
outside of the United States thank you
and Mr chairman I want to just say thank
you for this hearing I would like I
would hope that we would be asking for
documents uh or in Communications
whether it's on personal devices or
private devices between
um between these individuals and
government officials
sold out very good thank you chair
recognize Ms McLean for five minutes
thank you Mr chairman and thank you all
for being here today it is a long day
um I'm going to try and make this quick
and easy Mr Roth part of your job at
Twitter dealt with assessing dis and
misinformation correct
yes wonderful how did you determine what
disinformation and what and
misinformation was what's your criteria
for making that decision
Twitter had established policies
covering each of those areas and I'll
take them in turn we use the term
distance we actually generally didn't
use the term disinformation but we
focused on platform manipulation so
behaviors like running in authentic
accounts out of a Russian troll Farm we
would address as the behaviors that they
are and we would look for technical
signs of that type of manipulation and
we would remove those accounts
so technical it was all technical
on that side of things yes okay
when it comes to misinformation which
broadly is a question of the content of
tweets Twitter would establish written
policies which was
I'm sorry which was
which policies did Twitter maintain yeah
I mean I think what the the problem with
America is we have one set of rules for
this team and another set of rules for
this team so we're trying to look at
what is the equal playing field I'm
under the assumption that when we use
disinformation and we use criteria the
criteria is the same for both sides so
I'm trying to figure out what is the
criteria that you had in place to
determine which information was
misinformation and did you apply that
equally equitably inclusively so to
speak to all sides so what is the
criteria
thank you for the question we used a
three-part test across all of our
misinformation policies okay the first
is whether the Tweet advances a claim of
fact stated definitively not an opinion
not a viewpoint but a claim of fact
stated definitively okay the second part
of that test is whether the claim of
fact is provably false not iffy not
maybe not gray area definitely provably
by multiple expert sources false and
then finally and this is a really
important part we looked for evidence
that those claims of fact could cause
harm
so if a tweet met all three parts of
that test that it's a claim of fact that
it's provably false and that it's
dangerous Twitter might intervene under
its policies no part of that test is
Viewpoint based
in your opinion was that applied to all
tweets
no thank you Mr Roth um you're familiar
with the reports that the Biden
Administration was considering
establishing a disinformation governance
board under the Department of Homeland
Security
I am aware of public reporting about
that thank you and that board was never
established correct
that's my understanding that is correct
it seems to me that the federal
government had far more powerful
disinformation governance board in its
relationship with Twitter again Mr Roth
um question how often did you uh how
often were you meeting with people from
the federal government while you were at
Twitter weekly daily monthly
I would estimate somewhere between
weekly and monthly okay and were you
aware that Mr Baker was also taking
these meetings with the federal
government as well
I was not aware of Mr Baker's calendar
no so you had no idea that he was
meeting there was no winner you just
worked in silos Mr Baker and I were in
some of the same meetings together but
no I did not know the ins and outs of
what he was doing okay what did you
understand Mr Baker's role to be at
Twitter besides offering General legal
advice
Mr Baker supervised the primary legal
team that advised the trust and safety
team he was the supervisor of the
supervisor of the attorneys who advised
my team okay and how about Miss gaddy's
role at Twitter besides offering General
legal advice
for the final I believe year and a half
of my tenure at Twitter Miss Scotty was
my direct supervisor oh okay what was
her role
just to supervise you to make sure you
followed those three claims
it's got to supervise what my team's
goals and objectives were she made sure
I was doing my job she made sure that if
there was conflict in the workplace she
guided me on how to address that she did
the job of a manager
okay
and she oversaw you and and the trust to
make sure that your three claims of fact
provable uh faults and would cause harm
she was she oversaw that
yes Miss Scotty ultimately oversaw
Twitter's policies and enforcement
decisions Mr Roth missing
avaroli's testimony she states that her
expertise is in media technology law and
policy how often per week did you meet
with Miss navaroli to discuss these
areas while you were both at Twitter
we did not you did not okay thank you
ladies time has expired chair reckon
thank you chair recognize Mr La Turner
for five minutes thank you Mr chairman
based on everything I have seen
regarding this issue it is clear to me
that government officials colluded with
Twitter employees to censor the New York
post's legitimate reporting of the
hunter Biden laptop story Democrats on
this committee have so far characterized
this hearing as unnecessary and a waste
of time I'd invite any of my colleagues
across the aisle to talk to folks in
Kansas because I can promise you they do
not feel that way
in fact my constituents are very
concerned and rightfully so that a
social media company collaborated with a
government entity and a political party
to suppress certain social media
accounts and filter news ahead of an
election cycle Americans deserve answers
on this outright attack on our first
amendment rights and I look forward to
gaining Clarity from our Witnesses Mr
Baker your testimony focuses heavily on
the fact that Twitter acted lawfully in
its reaction to the hunter Biden laptop
story but this isn't a criminal trial
it's a congressional hearing I'm here
because my constituents are genuinely
concerned that they will be kicked off
these platforms for any statement that
managers at those companies disagree
with they feel that social media
companies like Twitter are forcing them
to play a game
that they don't know the rules to
I want to know your opinion on if you
think it is appropriate for people in
positions of power to determine what
information gets shared if not what
criteria is acceptable for making those
those determinations
that's a excuse me sir that's a very
broad question on people in power I'm
not sure I can answer that uh
effectively and and address your could
you try
well I mean the Congress is in power
Congress is restricted by the
Constitution of the United States uh
Congress passes laws those laws impact
how for example private sector actors uh
exercise their
power or
spend their money that type of thing
government agencies have to act in
accordance with the Constitution the
laws you pass internal regulations
executive orders there's a whole panoply
of ways that
um that people in power written large uh
are held accountable and have to comply
with rules and regulations and laws in
the Constitution Mr chairman I would
like to yield the rest of my time to Mr
Jordan Miss Jordan I thank the gentleman
uh Mr Roth I want to go back to your
statement in your in your declaration
the FEC I learned that a hack and leak
operation would involve Hunter Biden who
did you learn that from
my recollection is it was mentioned by
another technology company in one of our
joint meetings but I don't recall
specifically whom you don't know the
person's name I don't even recall what
company they worked at no this was a
long time ago and you're you're
confident that it was from uh a tech
company not from someone from the
government
to the best of my recollection yes did
anyone from the government in these
periodic meetings you have did they ever
tell you that a hack and leak operation
involving Hunter Biden was coming
no
did Hunter Biden's name come up at all
in these meetings
yes his name was raised in those
meetings but not by the government to
the best of my recollection okay
um
Mr Baker I want to go back to the
question we had a few hours ago did but
I want to frame in a way I think you can
answer did you ever tell the FBI
that they had no legitimate interest in
enforcement of Twitter's policies
I don't think I
I understand I think I understand the
question
um I don't recall ever having such a
conversation with the FBI okay did you
think there was a problem with the FBI
sending you a list of names and accounts
and saying hey these violate your
policies did you see that as a pal as
some kind of potential concern
I was
always concerned that the FBI adhered to
the constitutional laws of the United
States
period and you didn't think that crossed
the line
what crossed the line sir what I just
asked you that the guy that they're
sending you a list of accounts that they
want
they say these violate your your terms
of service
again I'm making sure that I can answer
the question
um
had I thought that they were doing
something unlawful I would have taken
appropriate steps to address it
um okay Mr Roth uh why was you why were
you reluctant based on what I read in
the Twitter files why were you reluctant
to work with the gec
it was my understanding that the gec or
the global engagement center of the
state department had previously engaged
in at least what some would consider
offensive influence operations not that
they were offensive as in bad but
offensive is in they targeted entities
outside of the United States and on that
basis I felt that it would be
inappropriate for Twitter to engage with
a part of the state department that was
engaged in active statecraft we were
dedicated to rooting out malign foreign
interference no matter who it came from
and if we found that the American
government was engaged in malign foreign
interference we'd be we'd be addressing
that as well
yep
the gentleman times expired in closing I
want to again thank our panelists for
being here I know it's been a long day
we apologize for the electricity going
out that's never happened in my six
years in Congress but before we close uh
to ranking member and I are going to
have very brief closing statements I
yield to the ranking member
well thank you kindly Mr chairman thank
you to the witnesses for your endurance
and patience today I hope you don't uh I
hope you don't feel as bad about the day
as you seem to look right now but it's
going to be over soon I want to start
with a simple point that I hope will be
sympathetic to you and I began the long
day with this it's even more important
now that we have members who are
actually threatening Witnesses with
arrest and prosecution for clearly
imaginary offenses or at least offenses
that might make sense in their minds but
I don't quite know what they would be
but Twitter is a private First Amendment
protected media entity and you make your
own decisions like Fox News makes its
decisions and I might get kicked off of
Fox News or they might not cover me or
Wall Street Journal or MSNBC I've got no
constitutional right to go there so I
think there's just a fundamental legal
fallacy and logical fallacy that
pervades most of the questioning uh
today and
um uh my friend uh the chairman and my
friend Mr Jordan certainly know that
under our first amendment there's a
state action requirement there is no
State action here
um now there's an attempt to perhaps uh
Jerry rig some State action by claiming
well it was really the FBI that
committed whatever offense was there but
what do we have in terms of what we
found today well today's Witnesses each
and everyone testified that no U.S
government official directed any of them
to censor remove or take down the New
York Post story that was their mistake
two today's Witnesses all testified that
the Biden campaign did not direct
Twitter to take action against the New
York Post story and three
the whole hearing was predicated on the
idea that the FBI directed Twitter to
take down the New York Post story to
protect Biden but once again not a
single win is testified that the FBI
even communicated with Twitter about the
New York Post story so to me this has
been a wild cyber goose chase all day it
is turned up absolutely nothing but
there was one serious Point made by our
witness Ms navaroli who said that the
violence and the chaos that was wrecked
upon this institution not far from where
we sit today on January 6th the attempt
to topple a presidential election and
install someone who had not been elected
as president was facilitated by Twitter
and other
um social media entities and at Twitter
at least the brass there specifically
rejected the pleas of employees to take
seriously all of the signs and clues of
coming violence in the insurrectionary
action that took place that's a serious
problem that we're going to have to deal
with at some point at a serious hearing
Mr chairman I yield back to you
gentleman yields back I will conclude by
saying reminding my friend the ranking
member that you've gone through a
through quite the transition at the
beginning of the hearing you as well as
many of your colleagues said this was a
conspiracy theory after listening to the
witnesses now you say it's a simple
mistake they made in suppressing the
laptop story uh
Twitter is a private company but they
enjoy special liability protections
section 230.
they also according to Twitter files
receive millions of dollars from the FBI
which is tax dollars I would assume
and that makes it a concern of the
oversight committee
the reason that we've had this hearing
is because the laptop has been
mislabeled by midi in the mainstream
media as being Russian disinformation
and that started with Twitter as well as
being tampered with and you had several
people including Mr Goldman that implied
that it had been tampered with even
though CBS News
and other credible media Outlets you
mean mainstream media Outlets CBS you
don't think CBS is credible no I thought
you were just calling the mainstream
media CBS News CBS News has done uh
forensic audit that uh shows that the
hard drive's legitimate and it was not
tampered with so these are
misconceptions that are out there and
they started because of the suppression
of the laptop Story the reason the
laptop's important is because there's
evidence on there that should concern
every American about potential
corruption
as well as evidence that would suggest
that there's a possibility
that this Administration could be
compromised because of the millions and
millions of dollars that they've
received from our adversaries around the
world we believe that's worth
investigating We Believe National
Security is important we had a hearing
yesterday on our border we believe
there's a crisis at the border and it
threatens our national security we had a
hearing today we believe that we need to
make sure that this Administration is
not compromised because of the millions
of dollars that they've received from
our adversaries around the world that
much of that evidence
is contained in the laptop
so I think this was a very successful
hearing I appreciate the witness's time
I know it was a very long day and again
we we've never had the electricity go
out before
but uh again we appreciate your your
sincere testimony
and with that and without objection all
members will have five legislation I
apologize I just uh I it's come to my
attention that I have to seek your
unanimous request in order to submit
some additional without objection to
order thank you apologies uh with that
and without objection all members will
have five less life days within which to
submit materials and to submit
additional written questions for the
witnesses which will be forwarded to the
witness for their response if there's no
further Business Without objection the
committee stands adjourned
foreign